of organic shame. The phallus alone could explore it. And how he had pressed in on her! And how, in fear, she had hated it. But how she had really wanted it! She knew now. At the bottom of her soul, fundamentally, she had needed this phallic hunting out, she had secretly wanted it, and she had believed that she would never get it. Now suddenly there it was, and a man was sharing her last and final nakedness, she was shameless. What liars poets and everybody were! They made one think one wanted sentiment. When what one supremely wanted was this piercing, consuming, rather awful sensuality. To find a man who dared do it, without shame or sin or final misgiving! If he had been ashamed afterwards, and made one feel ashamed, how awful! What a pity most men are so doggy, a bit shameful, like Clifford! Like Michaelis even! Both sensually a bit doggy and humiliating. The supreme pleasure of the mind! And what is that to a woman? What is it, really, to the man either! He becomes merely messy and doggy, even in his mind. It needs sheer sensuality even to purify and quicken the mind. Sheer fiery sensuality, not messiness. Ah God, how rare a thing a man is! They are all dogs that trot and sniff and copulate. To have found a man who was not afraid and not ashamed! She looked at him now, sleeping so like a wild animal asleep, gone, gone in the remoteness of it. She nestled down, not to be away from him. Till his rousing waked her completely. He was sitting up in bed, looking down at her. She saw her own nakedness in his eyes, immediate knowledge of her. And the fluid, male knowledge of herself seemed to flow to her from his eyes and wrap her voluptuously. Oh, how voluptuous and lovely it was to have limbs and body half-asleep, heavy and suffused with passion! "Is it time to wake up?" she said. "Half-past six." She had to be at the lane-end at eight. Always, always, always this compulsion on one! "I might make the breakfast and bring it up here; should I?" he said. "Oh, yes!" Flossie whimpered gently below. He got up and threw off his pyjamas, and rubbed himself with a towel. When the human being is full of courage and full of life, how beautiful it is! So she thought, as she watched him in silence. "Draw the curtain, will you?" The sun was shining already on the tender green leaves of morning, and the wood stood bluey-fresh, in the nearness. She sat up in bed, looking dreamily out through the dormer window, her naked arms pushing her naked breasts together. He was dressing himself. She was half-dreaming of life, a life together with him: just a life. He was going, fleeing from her dangerous, crouching nakedness. "Have I lost my nightie altogether?" she said. He pushed his hand down in the bed, and pulled out the bit of flimsy silk. "I knowed I felt silk at my ankles," he said. But the night dress was slit almost in two. "Never mind!" she said. "It belongs here, really. I'll leave it." "Ay, leave it, I can put it between my legs at night, for company. There's no name nor mark on it, is there?" She slipped on the torn thing, and sat dreamily looking out of the window. The window was open, the air of morning drifted in, and the sound of birds. Birds flew continuously past. Then she saw Flossie roaming out. It was morning. Downstairs she heard him making the fire, pumping water, going out at the back door. By and by came the smell of bacon, and at length he came upstairs with a huge black tray that would only just go through the door. He set the tray on the bed, and poured out the tea. Connie squatted in her torn night dress, and fell on her food hungrily. He sat on the one chair, with his plate on his knees. "How good it is!" she said. "How nice to have breakfast together." He ate in silence, his mind on the time that was quickly passing. That made her remember. "Oh, how I wish I could stay here with you, and Wragby were a million miles away! It's Wragby I'm going away from really. You know that, don't you?" "Ay!" "And you promise we will live together and have a life together, you and me! You promise me, don't you?" "Ay! When we can." "Yes! And we _will_! we _will_, won't we?" she leaned over, making the tea spill, catching his wrist. "Ay!" he said, tidying up the tea. "We can't possibly _not_ live together now, can we?" she said appealingly. He looked up at her with his flickering grin. "No!" he said. "Only you've got to start in twenty-five minutes." "Have I?" she cried. Suddenly he held up a warning finger, and rose to his feet. Flossie had given a short bark, then three loud sharp yaps of warning. Silent, he put his plate on the tray and went downstairs. Constance heard him go down the garden path. A bicycle bell tinkled outside there. "Morning, Mr. Mellors! Registered letter!" "Oh, ay! Got a pencil?" "Here y'are!" There was a pause. "Canada!" said the stranger's voice. "Ay! That's a mate o' mine out there in British Columbia. Dunno what he's got to register." "'Appen sent y'a fortune, like." "More like wants summat." Pause. "Well! Lovely day again!" "Ay!" "Morning!" "Morning!" After a time he came upstairs again, looking a little angry. "Postman," he said. "Very early!" she replied. "Rural round; he's mostly here by seven, when he does come." "Did your mate send you a fortune?" "No! Only some photographs and papers about a place out there in British Columbia." "Would you go there?" "I thought perhaps we might." "Oh, yes! I believe it's lovely!" But he was put out by the postman's coming. "Them damned bikes, they're on you afore you know where you are. I hope he twigged nothing." "After all, what could he twig!" "You must get up now, and get ready. I'm just goin' ter look round outside." She saw him go reconnoitring into the lane, with the dog and gun. She went downstairs and washed, and was ready by the time he came back, with the few things in the little silk bag. He locked up, and they set off, but through the wood, not down the lane. He was being wary. "Don't you think one lives for times like last night?" she said to him. "Ay! But there's the rest o' times to think on," he replied, rather short. They plodded on down the overgrown path, he in front, in silence. "And we _will_ live together and make a life together, won't we?" she pleaded. "Ay!" he replied, striding on without looking round. "When t' time comes! Just now you're off to Venice or somewhere." She followed him dumbly, with sinking heart. Oh, now she _was_ to go! At last he stopped. "I'll just strike across here," he said, pointing to the right. But she flung her arms round his neck, and clung to him. "But you'll keep the tenderness for me, won't you?" she whispered. "I loved last night. But you'll keep the tenderness for me, won't you?" He kissed her and held her close for a moment. Then he sighed, and kissed her again. "I must go an' look if th' car's there." He strode over the low brambles and bracken, leaving a trail through the fern. For a minute or two he was gone. Then he came striding back. "Car's not there yet," he said. "But there's the baker's cart on t' road." He seemed anxious and troubled. "Hark!" They heard a car softly hoot as it came nearer. It slowed up on the bridge. She plunged with utter mournfulness in his track through the fern, and came to a huge holly hedge. He was just behind her. "Here! Go through there!" he said, pointing to a gap. "I shan't come out." She looked at him in despair. But he kissed her and made her go. She crept in sheer misery through the holly and through the wooden fence, stumbled down the little ditch and up into the lane, where Hilda was just getting out of the car in vexation. "Why, you're there!" said Hilda. "Where's _he_?" "He's not coming." Connie's face was running with tears as she got into the car with her little bag. Hilda snatched up the motoring helmet with the disfiguring goggles. "Put it on!" she said. And Connie pulled on the disguise, then the long motoring coat, and she sat down, a goggling, inhuman, unrecognisable creature. Hilda started the car with a business-like motion. They heaved out of the lane, and were away down the road. Connie had looked round, but there was no