The dog sighed with discomfort on the mat. The ash-clogged fire sank. "We _are_ a couple of battered warriors," said Connie. "Are you battered too?" he laughed. "And here we are returning to the fray!" "Yes! I feel really frightened." "Ay!" He got up, and put her shoes to dry, and wiped his own and set them near the fire. In the morning he would grease them. He poked the ash of pasteboard as much as possible out of the fire. "Even burnt, it's filthy," he said. Then he brought sticks and put them on the hob for the morning. Then he went out a while with the dog. When he came back, Connie said: "I want to go out too, for a minute." She went alone into the darkness. There were stars overhead. She could smell flowers on the night air. And she could feel her wet shoes getting wetter again. But she felt like going away, right away from him and everybody. It was chilly. She shuddered, and returned to the house. He was sitting in front of the low fire. "Ugh! Cold!" she shuddered. He put the sticks on the fire, and fetched more, till they had a good crackling chimneyful of blaze. The rippling running yellow flame made them both happy, warmed their faces and their souls. "Never mind!" she said, taking his hand as he sat silent and remote. "One does one's best." "Ay!"--He sighed, with a twist of a smile. She slipped over to him, and into his arms, as he sat there before the fire. "Forget then!" she whispered. "Forget!" He held her close, in the running warmth of the fire. The flame itself was like a forgetting. And her soft, warm, ripe weight! Slowly his blood turned, and began to ebb back into strength and reckless vigour again. "And perhaps the women _really_ wanted to be there and love you properly, only perhaps they couldn't. Perhaps it wasn't all their fault," she said. "I know it. Do you think I don't know what a broken-backed snake that's been trodden on I was myself!" She clung to him suddenly. She had not wanted to start all this again. Yet some perversity had made her. "But you're not now," she said. "You're not that now: a broken-backed snake that's been trodden on." "I don't know what I am. There's black days ahead." "No!" she protested, clinging to him. "Why? Why?" "There's black days coming for us all and for everybody," he repeated with a prophetic gloom. "No! You're not to say it!" He was silent. But she could feel the black void of despair inside him. That was the death of all desire, the death of all love: this despair that was like the dark cave inside the men, in which their spirit was lost. "And you talk so coldly about sex," she said. "You talk as if you had only wanted your own pleasure and satisfaction." She was protesting nervously against him. "Nay!" he said. "I wanted to have my pleasure and satisfaction of a woman, and I never got it: because I could never get my pleasure and satisfaction of _her_ unless she got hers of me at the same time. And it never happened. It takes two." "But you never believed in your women. You don't even believe really in me," she said. "I don't know what believing in a woman means." "That's it, you see!" She still was curled on his lap. But his spirit was grey and absent, he was not there for her. And everything she said drove him further. "But what _do_ you believe in?" she insisted. "I don't know." "Nothing, like all the men I've ever known," she said. They were both silent. Then he roused himself and said: "Yes, I do believe in something. I believe in being warm-hearted. I believe especially in being warm-hearted in love, in fucking with a warm heart. I believe if men could fuck with warm hearts, and the women take it warm-heartedly, everything would come all right. It's all this cold-hearted fucking that is death and idiocy." "But you don't fuck me cold-heartedly," she protested. "I don't want to fuck you at all. My heart's as cold as cold potatoes just now." "Oh!" she said, kissing him mockingly. "Let's have them _sautées_." He laughed, and sat erect. "It's a fact!" he said. "Any thing for a bit of warm-heartedness. But the women don't like it. Even you don't really like it. You like good, sharp, piercing cold-hearted fucking, and then pretending it's all sugar. Where's your tenderness for me? You're as suspicious of me as a cat is of a dog. I tell you it takes two even to be tender and warm-hearted. You love fucking all right: but you want it to be called something grand and mysterious, just to flatter your own self-importance. Your own self-importance is more to you, fifty times more, than any man, or being together with a man." "But that's what I'd say of you. Your own self-importance is everything to you." "Ay! Very well then!" he said, moving as if he wanted to rise. "Let's keep apart then. I'd rather die than do any more cold-hearted fucking." She slid away from him, and he stood up. "And do you think _I_ want it?" she said. "I hope you don't," he replied. "But anyhow, you go to bed an' I'll sleep down here." She looked at him. He was pale, his brows were sullen, he was as distant in recoil as the cold pole. Men were all alike. "I can't go home till morning," she said. "No! Go to bed. It's a quarter to one." "I certainly won't," she said. He went across and picked up his boots. "Then I'll go out!" he said. He began to put on his boots. She stared at him. "Wait!" she faltered. "Wait! What's come between us?" He was bent over, lacing his boot, and did not reply. The moments passed. A dimness came over her, like a swoon. All her consciousness died, and she stood there wide-eyed, looking at him from the unknown, knowing nothing any more. He looked up, because of the silence, and saw her wide-eyed and lost. And as if a wind tossed him he got up and hobbled over to her, one shoe off and one shoe on, and took her in his arms, pressing her against his body, which somehow felt hurt right through. And there he held her, and there she remained. Till his hands reached blindly down and felt for her, and felt under the clothing to where she was smooth and warm. "Ma lass!" he murmured. "Ma little lass! Dunna let's fight! Dunna let's niver fight! I love thee an' th' touch on thee. Dunna argue wi' me! Dunna! Dunna! Dunna! Let's be together." She lifted her face and looked at him. "Don't be upset," she said steadily. "It's no good being upset. Do you really want to be together with me?" She looked with wide, steady eyes into his face. He stopped, and went suddenly still, turning his face aside. All his body went perfectly still, but did not withdraw. Then he lifted his head and looked into her eyes, with his odd, faintly mocking grin, saying: "Ay-ay! Let's be together on oath." "But really?" she said, her eyes filling with tears. "Ay really! Heart an' belly an' cock." He still smiled faintly down at her, with the flicker of irony in his eyes, and a touch of bitterness. She was silently weeping, and he lay with her and went into her there on the hearthrug, and so they gained a measure of equanimity. And then they went quickly to bed, for it was growing chill, and they had tired each other out. And she nestled up to him, feeling small and enfolded, and they both went to sleep at once, fast in one sleep. And so they lay and never moved, till the sun rose over the wood and day was beginning. Then he woke up and looked at the light. The curtains were drawn. He listened to the loud wild calling of blackbirds and thrushes in the wood. It would be a brilliant morning, about half-past five, his hour for rising. He had slept so fast! It was such a new day! The woman was still curled asleep and tender. His hand moved on her, and she opened her blue, wondering eyes, smiling unconsciously into his face. "Are you awake?" she said to him. He was looking into her eyes. He smiled, and kissed her. And suddenly she roused and sat up. "Fancy that I am here!" she said. She looked round the whitewashed little bedroom with its sloping ceiling and gable window where the white curtains were closed. The room was bare save for a little yellow-painted chest of drawers, and a chair: and the smallish white bed in which she lay with him.