the top of the house, an attic room where he cooked for himself on a gas ring. It was small, but decent and tidy. She took off her things, and made him do the same. She was lovely in the soft first flush of her pregnancy. "I ought to leave you alone," he said. "No!" she said. "Love me! Love me, and say you'll keep me. Say you'll keep me! Say you'll never let me go, to the world nor to anybody." She crept close against him, clinging fast to his thin, strong naked body, the only home she had ever known. "Then I'll keep thee," he said. "If tha wants it, then I'll keep thee." He held her round and fast. "And say you're glad about the child," she repeated. "Kiss it! Kiss my womb and say you're glad it's there." But that was more difficult for him. "I've a dread of puttin' children i' th' world," he said. "I've such a dread o' th' future for 'em." "But you've put it into me. Be tender to it, and that will be its future already. Kiss it!" He quivered, because it was true. "Be tender to it, and that will be its future."--At that moment he felt a sheer love for the woman. He kissed her belly and her mound of Venus, to kiss close to the womb and the foetus within the womb. "Oh, you love me! You love me!" she said, in a little cry like one of her blind, inarticulate love cries. And he went in to her softly, feeling the stream of tenderness flowing in release from his bowels to hers, the bowels of compassion kindled between them. And he realized as he went in to her that this was the thing he had to do, to come into tender touch, without losing his pride or his dignity or his integrity as a man. After all, if she had money and means, and he had none, he should be too proud and honourable to hold back his tenderness from her on that account. "I stand for the touch of bodily awareness between human beings," he said to himself, "and the touch of tenderness. And she is my mate. And it is a battle against the money, and the machine, and the insentient ideal monkeyishness of the world. And she will stand behind me there. Thank God I've got a woman! Thank God I've got a woman who is with me, and tender and aware of me. Thank God she's not a bully, nor a fool. Thank God she's a tender, aware woman." And as his seed sprang in her, his soul sprang towards her too, in the creative act that is far more than procreative. She was quite determined now that there should be no parting between him and her. But the ways and means were still to settle. "Did you hate Bertha Coutts?" she asked him. "Don't talk to me about her." "Yes! You must let me. Because once you liked her. And once you were as intimate with her as you are with me. So you have to tell me. Isn't it rather terrible, when you've been intimate with her, to hate her so? Why is it?" "I don't know. She sort of kept her will ready against me, always, always: her ghastly female will: her freedom! A woman's ghastly freedom that ends in the most beastly bullying! Oh, she always kept her freedom against me, like vitriol in my face." "But she's not free of you even now. Does she still love you?" "No, no! If she's not free of me, it's because she's got that mad rage, she must try to bully me." "But she must have loved you." "No! Well in specks, she did. She was drawn to me. And I think even that she hated. She loved me in moments. But she always took it back, and started bullying. Her deepest desire was to bully me, and there was no altering her. Her _will_ was wrong, from the first." "But perhaps she felt you didn't really love her, and she wanted to make you." "My God, it was bloody making." "But you didn't really love her, did you? You did her that wrong." "How could I? I began to. I began to love her. But somehow, she always ripped me up. No, don't let's talk of it. It was a doom, that was. And she was a doomed woman. This last time, I'd have shot her like I shoot a stoat, if I'd but been allowed: a raving, doomed thing in the shape of a woman! If only I could have shot her, and ended the whole misery! It ought to be allowed. When a woman gets absolutely possessed by her own will, her own will set against everything, then it's fearful, and she should be shot at last." "And shouldn't men be shot at last, if they get possessed by their own will?" "Ay!--the same! But I must get free of her, or she'll be at me again. I wanted to tell you. I must get a divorce if I possibly can. So we must be careful. We mustn't really be seen together, you and I. I never, _never_ could stand it if she came down on me and you." Connie pondered this. "Then we can't be together?" she said. "Not for six months or so. But I think my divorce will go through in September, then till March." "But the baby will probably be born at the end of February," she said. He was silent. "I could wish the Cliffords and Berthas all dead," he said. "It's not being very tender to them," she said. "Tender to them? Yea, even then the tenderest thing you could do for them, perhaps, would be to give them death. They can't live! They only frustrate life. Their souls are awful inside them. Death ought to be sweet to them. And I ought to be allowed to shoot them." "But you wouldn't do it," she said. "I would though! and with less qualms than I shoot a weasel. It anyhow has a prettiness and a loneliness. But they are legion. Oh, I'd shoot them." "Then perhaps it is just as well you daren't." "Well." Connie had now plenty to think of. It was evident he wanted absolutely to be free of Bertha Coutts. And she felt he was right. The last attack had been too grim. This meant her living alone, till spring. Perhaps she could get divorced from Clifford. But how? If Mellors were named, then there was an end to _his_ divorce. How loathsome! Couldn't one go right away, to the far ends of the earth, and be free from it all? One could not. The far ends of the world are not five minutes from Charing Cross, nowadays. While the wireless is active, there are no far ends of the earth. Kings of Dahomey and Lamas of Tibet listen in to London and New York. Patience! Patience! The world is a vast and ghastly intricacy of mechanism, and one has to be very wary, not to get mangled by it. Connie confided in her father. "You see, Father, he was Clifford's gamekeeper: but he was an officer in the army in India. Only he is like Colonel C. E. Florence, who preferred to become a private soldier again." Sir Malcolm, however, had no sympathy with the unsatisfactory mysticism of the famous C. E. Florence. He saw too much advertisement behind all the humility. It looked just like the sort of conceit the knight most loathed, the conceit of self-abasement. "Where did your gamekeeper spring from?" asked Sir Malcolm irritably. "He was a collier's son in Tevershall. But he's absolutely presentable." The knighted artist became more angry. "Looks to me like a gold-digger," he said. "And you're a pretty easy gold-mine, apparently." "No, Father, it's not like that. You'd know if you saw him. He's a man. Clifford always detested him for not being humble." "Apparently he had a good instinct, for once." What Sir Malcolm could not bear, was the scandal of his daughter's having an intrigue with a gamekeeper. He did not mind the intrigue: he minded the scandal. "I care nothing about the fellow. He's evidently been able to get round you all right. But by God, think of all the talk. Think of your step-mother, how she'll take it!" "I know," said Connie. "Talk is beastly: especially if you live in society. And he wants so much to get his own divorce. I thought we might perhaps say it was another man's child, and not mention Mellors' name at all." "Another man's! What other man's?" "Perhaps Duncan Forbes. He has been our friend all his life. And he's a fairly well-known artist. And he's fond of me." "Well, I'm damned! Poor Duncan! And what's he going to get out of it?" "I don't know. But