on the fender, with the black potato-saucepan on a piece of paper beside it on the white hearth. The fire was red, rather low, the bar dropped, the kettle singing. On the table was his plate, with potatoes and the remains of the chop; also bread in a basket, salt, and a blue mug with beer. The tablecloth was white oil-cloth. He stood in the shade. "You are very late," she said. "Do go on eating!" She sat down on a wooden chair, in the sunlight by the door. "I had to go to Uthwaite," he said, sitting down at table but not eating. "Do eat," she said. But he did not touch the food. "Shall y'ave something?" he asked her. "Shall y'ave a cup of tea? t' kettle's on t' boil." He half rose again from his chair. "If you'll let me make it myself," she said rising. He seemed sad, and she felt she was bothering him. "Well, teapot's in there,"--he pointed to a little, drab corner cupboard; "an' cups. An' tea's on t' mantel ower yer 'ead." She got the black teapot, and the tin of tea from the mantelshelf. She rinsed the teapot with hot water, and stood a moment wondering where to empty it. "Thrown it out," he said, aware of her. "It's clean." She went to the door and threw the drop of water down the path. How lovely it was here, so still, so really woodland. The oaks were putting out ochre yellow leaves; in the garden the red daisies were like red plush buttons. She glanced at the big, hollow sandstone slab of the threshold, now crossed by so few feet. "But it's lovely here," she said. "Such a beautiful stillness, everything alive and still." He was eating again, rather slowly and unwillingly, and she could feel he was discouraged. She made the tea in silence, and set the teapot on the hob, as she knew the people did. He pushed his plate aside and went to the back place; she heard a latch click, then he came back with cheese on a plate, and butter. She set the two cups on the table, there were only two. "Will you have a cup of tea?" she said. "If you like. Sugar's in th' cupboard, an' there's a little cream-jug. Milk's in a jug in th' pantry." "Shall I take your plate away?" she asked him. He looked up at her with a faint ironical smile. "Why ... if you like," he said, slowly eating bread and cheese. She went to the back, into the penthouse scullery, where the pump was. On the left was a door, no doubt the pantry door. She unlatched it, and almost smiled at the place he called a pantry; a long narrow whitewashed slip of a cupboard. But it managed to contain a little barrel of beer, as well as a few dishes and bits of food. She took a little milk from the yellow jug. "How do you get your milk?" she asked him, when she came back to the table. "Flints! They leave me a bottle at the warren end. You know, where I met you!" But he was discouraged. She poured out the tea, poising the cream-jug. "No milk," he said; then he seemed to hear a noise, and looked keenly through the doorway. "'Appen we'd better shut," he said. "It seems a pity," she replied. "Nobody will come, will they?" "No unless it's one in a thousand, but you never know." "And even then it's no matter," she said. "It's only a cup of tea. Where are the spoons?" He reached over, and pulled open the table drawer. Connie sat at table in the sunshine of the doorway. "Flossie!" he said to the dog, who was lying on a little mat at the stair foot. "Go an' hark, hark!" He lifted his finger, and his "hark!" was very vivid. The dog trotted out to reconnoitre. "Are you sad today?" she asked him. He turned his blue eyes quickly, and gazed direct on her. "Sad! no, bored! I had to go getting summonses for two poachers I caught, and oh well, I don't like people." He spoke cold, good English, and there was anger in his voice. "Do you hate being a gamekeeper?" she asked. "Being a gamekeeper, no! So long as I'm left alone. But when I have to go messing around at the police station, and various other places, and waiting for a lot of fools to attend to me ... oh well, I get mad ..." and he smiled, with a certain faint humour. "Couldn't you be really independent?" she asked. "Me? I suppose I could, if you mean manage to exist on my pension. I could! But I've got to work, or I should die. That is, I've got to have something that keeps me occupied. And I'm not in a good enough temper to work for myself. It's got to be a sort of job for somebody else, or I should throw it up in a month, out of bad temper. So altogether I'm very well off here, especially lately...." He laughed at her again, with mocking humour. "But why are you in a bad temper?" she asked. "Do you mean you are _always_ in a bad temper?" "Pretty well," he said, laughing. "I don't quite digest my bile." "But what bile?" she said. "Bile!" he said. "Don't you know what that is?" She was silent, and disappointed. He was taking no notice of her. "I'm going away for a while next month," she said. "You are! Where to?" "Venice." "Venice! With Sir Clifford? For how long?" "For a month or so," she replied. "Clifford won't go." "He'll stay here?" he asked. "Yes! He hates to travel as he is." "Ay, poor devil!" he said, with sympathy. There was a pause. "You won't forget me when I'm gone, will you?" she asked. Again he lifted his eyes and looked full at her. "Forget?" he said. "You know nobody forgets. It's not a question of memory." She wanted to say: "What then?" but she didn't. Instead, she said in a mute kind of voice: "I told Clifford I might have a child." Now he really looked at her, intense and searching. "You did?" he said at last. "And what did he say?" "Oh, he wouldn't mind. He'd be glad, really, so long as it seemed to be his." She dared not look up at him. He was silent a long time, then he gazed again on her face. "No mention of _me_, of course?" he said. "No. No mention of you," she said. "No, he'd hardly swallow me as a substitute breeder.--Then where are you supposed to be getting the child?" "I might have a love affair in Venice," she said. "You might," he replied slowly. "So that's why you're going?" "Not to have the love affair," she said, looking up at him, pleading. "Just the appearance of one," he said. There was silence. He sat staring out of the window, with a faint grin, half mockery, half bitterness, on his face. She hated his grin. "You've not taken any precautions against having a child then?" he asked her suddenly. "Because I haven't." "No," she said faintly. "I should hate that." He looked at her, then again with the peculiar subtle grin out of the window. There was a tense silence. At last he turned to her and said satirically: "That was why you wanted me then, to get a child?" She hung her head. "No. Not really," she said. "What then, _really_?" he asked rather bitingly. She looked up at him reproachfully, saying: "I don't know." He broke into a laugh. "Then I'm damned if I do," he said. There was a long pause of silence, a cold silence. "Well," he said at last. "It's as your Ladyship likes. If you get the baby, Sir Clifford's welcome to it. I shan't have lost anything. On the contrary, I've had a very nice experience, very nice indeed!" and he stretched in a half suppressed sort of yawn. "If you've made use of me," he said, "it's not the first time I've been made use of; and I don't suppose it's ever been as pleasant as this time; though of course one can't feel tremendously dignified about it." He stretched again, curiously, his muscles quivering, and his jaw oddly set. "But I didn't make use of you," she said, pleading. "At your Ladyship's service," he replied. "No," she said. "I liked your body." "Did you?" he replied, and he laughed. "Well then, we're quits, because I liked yours." He looked at her with queer darkened eyes. "Would you like to go upstairs now?" he asked her, in a strangled sort of voice. "No, not here. Not now!" she said heavily, though if he had used any power over her, she would have gone, for she had no strength against him. He