"Fancy that we are here!" she said, looking down at him. He was lying watching her, stroking her breasts with his fingers, under the thin night dress. When he was warm and smoothed out, he looked young and handsome. His eyes could look so warm. And she was fresh and young like a flower. "I want to take this off!" he said, gathering the thin batiste night dress and pulling it over her head. She sat there with bare shoulders and longish breasts faintly golden. He loved to make her breasts swing softly, like bells. "You must take off your pyjamas too," she said. "Eh nay!" "Yes! Yes!" she commanded. And he took off his old cotton pyjama-jacket, and pushed down the trousers. Save for his hands and wrists and face and neck he was white as milk, with fine slender muscular flesh. To Connie he was suddenly piercingly beautiful again, as when she had seen him that afternoon washing himself. Gold of sunshine touched the closed white curtains. She felt it wanted to come in. "Oh! do let's draw the curtains! The birds are singing so! Do let the sun in," she said. He slipped out of bed with his back to her, naked and white and thin, and went to the window, stooping a little, drawing the curtains and looking out for a moment. The back was white and fine, the small buttocks beautiful with an exquisite, delicate manliness, the back of the neck ruddy and delicate and yet strong. There was an inward, not an outward strength in the delicate fine boy. "But you are beautiful!" she said. "So pure and fine! Come!" She held her arms out. He was ashamed to turn to her, because of his aroused nakedness. He caught his shirt off the floor, and held it to him, coming to her. "No!" she said, still holding out her beautiful slim arms from her dropping breasts. "Let me see you!" He dropped the shirt and stood still, looking towards her. The sun through the low window sent in a beam that lit up his thighs and slim belly, and the erect phallus rising darkish and hot-looking from the little cloud of vivid gold-red hair. She was startled and afraid. "How strange!" she said slowly. "How strange he stands there! So big! and so dark and cock-sure! Is he like that?" The man looked down the front of his slender white body, and laughed. Between the slim breasts the hair was dark, almost black. But at the root of the belly, where the phallus rose thick and arching, it was gold-red, vivid in a little cloud. "So proud!" she murmured, uneasy. "And so lordly! Now I know why men are so overbearing! But he's lovely, _really_. Like another being! A bit terrifying! But lovely really! And he comes to _me_!--" She caught her lower lip between her teeth, in fear and excitement. The man looked down in silence at the tense phallus, that did not change.--"Ay!" he said at last, in a little voice. "Ay ma lad! tha'rt theer right enough. Yi, tha mun rear thy head! Theer on thy own, eh? an' ta'es no count o' nob'dy! Tha ma'es nowt o' me, John Thomas. Art boss? of me? Eh well, tha'rt more cocky than me, an' tha says less. John Thomas! Dost want _her_? Does want my Lady Jane? Tha's dipped me in again, tha hast. Ay, an' tha comes up smilin'--Ax 'er then! Ax Lady Jane! Say: Lift up your heads o' ye gates, that the king of glory may come in. Ay, th' cheek on thee! Cunt, that's what tha'rt after. Tell Lady Jane tha wants cunt. John Thomas, an' th' cunt o' Lady Jane!--" "Oh, don't tease him," said Connie, crawling on her knees on the bed towards him and putting her arms round his white slender loins, and drawing him to her so that her hanging, swinging breasts touched the tip of the stirring, erect phallus, and caught the drop of moisture. She held the man fast. "Lie down!" he said. "Lie down! Let me come!" He was in a hurry now. And afterwards, when they had been quite still, the woman had to uncover the man again, to look at the mystery of the phallus. "And now he's tiny, and soft like a little bud of life!" she said, taking the soft small penis in her hand. "Isn't he somehow lovely! so on his own, so strange! And _so_ innocent! And he comes so far into me! You must _never_ insult him, you know. He's mine too. He's not only yours. He's mine! And so lovely and innocent!" And she held the penis soft in her hand. He laughed. "Blest be the tie that binds our hearts in kindred love," he said. "Of course!" she said. "Even when he's soft and little I feel my heart simply tied to him. And how lovely your hair is here! quite, quite different!" "That's John Thomas' hair, not mine!" he said. "John Thomas! John Thomas!" and she quickly kissed the soft penis, that was beginning to stir again. "Ay!" said the man, stretching his body almost painfully. "He's got his root in my soul, has that gentleman! An' sometimes I don' know what ter do wi' him. Ay, he's got a will of his own, an' it's hard to suit him. Yet I wouldn't have him killed." "No wonder men have always been afraid of him!" she said, "He's rather terrible." The quiver was going through the man's body, as the stream of consciousness again changed its direction, turning downwards. And he was helpless, as the penis in slow soft undulations filled and surged and rose up, and grew hard, standing there hard and over-weening, in its curious towering fashion. The woman, too, trembled a little as she watched. "There! Take him then! He's thine," said the man. And she quivered, and her own mind melted out. Sharp soft waves of unspeakable pleasure washed over her as he entered her, and started the curious molten thrilling that spread and spread till she was carried away with the last, blind flush of extremity. He heard the distant hooters of Stacks Gate, for seven-o'clock. It was Monday morning. He shivered a little, and with his face between her breasts pressed her soft breasts up over his ears, to deafen him. She had not even heard the hooters. She lay perfectly still, her soul washed transparent. "You must get up, mustn't you?" he muttered. "What time?" came her colourless voice. "Seven-o'clock blowers a bit sin'." "I suppose I must." She was resenting, as she always did, the compulsion from outside. He sat up and looked blankly out of the window. "You do love me, don't you?" she asked calmly. He looked down at her. "Tha knows what tha knows. What dost ax for!" he said, a little fretfully. "I want you to keep me, not to let me go," she said. His eyes seemed full of a warm, soft darkness that could not think. "When? Now?" "Now in your heart. Then I want to come and live with you always, soon." He sat naked on the bed, with his head dropped, unable to think. "Don't you want it," she asked. "Ay!" he said. Then with the same eyes darkened with another flame of consciousness, almost like sleep, he looked at her. "Dunna ax me nowt now," he said. "Let me be. I like thee. I luv thee when tha lies theer. A woman's a lovely thing when 'er's deep ter fuck, and cunt's good. Ah luv thee, thy legs, an' th' shape on thee, an' th' womanness on thee. Ah luv th' womanness on thee. Ah luv thee wi' my ba's an' wi' my heart. But dunna ax me nowt. Dunna ma'e me say nowt. Let me stop as I am while I can. Tha can ax me ivrything after. Now let me be, let me be!" And softly, he laid his hand over her mound of Venus, on the soft brown maiden-hair, and himself sat still and naked on the bed, his face motionless in physical abstraction, almost like the face of Buddha. Motionless, and in the invisible flame of another consciousness, he sat with his hand on her, and waited for the turn. After a while, he reached for his shirt and put it on, dressed himself swiftly in silence, looked at her once as she still lay naked and faintly golden like a Gloire de Dijon rose on the bed, and was gone. She heard him downstairs opening the door. And still she lay musing, musing. It was very hard to go: to go out of his arms. He called from the foot of the stairs: "Half-past seven!" She sighed, and got out of bed. The bare little room! Nothing in it at all but the small chest of drawers and the smallish bed. But the board floor was scrubbed clean. And