sitting at the top of the steps in his house-chair. After all, he was her husband: Wragby was her home: circumstance had done it. Mrs. Chambers held the gate and wished her ladyship a happy holiday. The car slipped out of the dark spinney that masked the park, on to the highroad where the colliers were trailing home. Hilda turned to the Crosshill Road, that was not a main road, but ran to Mansfield. Connie put on goggles. They ran beside the railway, which was in a cutting below them. Then they crossed the cutting on a bridge. "That's the lane to the cottage!" said Connie. Hilda glanced at it impatiently. "It's a frightful pity we can't go straight off!" she said. "We could have been in Pall Mall by nine o'clock." "I'm sorry for your sake," said Connie, from behind her goggles. They were soon at Mansfield, that once-romantic, now utterly disheartening colliery town. Hilda stopped at the hotel named in the motorcar book, and took a room. The whole thing was utterly uninteresting, and she was almost too angry to talk. However, Connie _had_ to tell her something of the man's history. "_He! He!_ What name do you call him by? You only say _he_," said Hilda. "I've never called him by any name: nor he me: which is curious, when you come to think of it. Unless we say Lady Jane and John Thomas. But his name is Oliver Mellors." "And how would you like to be Mrs. Oliver Mellors, instead of Lady Chatterley?" "I'd love it." There was nothing to be done with Connie. And anyhow, if the man had been a lieutenant in the army in India for four or five years, he must be more or less presentable. Apparently he had character. Hilda began to relent a little. "But you'll be through with him in a while," she said, "and then you'll be ashamed of having been connected with him. One _can't_ mix up with the working people." "But you are such a socialist! You're always on the side of the working classes." "I may be on their side in a political crisis, but being on their side makes me know how impossible it is to mix one's life with theirs. Not out of snobbery, but just because the whole rhythm is different." Hilda had lived among the real political intellectuals, so she was disastrously unanswerable. The nondescript evening in the hotel dragged out, and at last they had a nondescript dinner. Then Connie slipped a few things into a little silk bag, and combed her hair once more. "After all, Hilda," she said, "love can be wonderful; when you feel you _live_, and are in the very middle of creation." It was almost like bragging on her part. "I suppose every mosquito feels the same," said Hilda. "Do you think it does? How nice for it!" The evening was wonderfully clear and long-lingering, even in the small town. It would be half-light all night. With a face like a mask, from resentment, Hilda started her car again, and the two sped back on their traces, taking the other road, through Bolsover. Connie wore her goggles and disguising cap, and she sat in silence. Because of Hilda's opposition, she was fiercely on the side of the man, she would stand by him through thick and thin. They had their headlights on, by the time they passed Crosshill, and the small lit-up train that chuffed past in the cutting made it seem like real night. Hilda had calculated the turn into the lane at the bridge-end. She slowed up rather suddenly and swerved off the road, the lights glaring white into the grassy, overgrown lane. Connie looked out. She saw a shadowy figure, and she opened the door. "Here we are!" she said softly. But Hilda had switched off the lights, and was absorbed backing, making the turn. "Nothing on the bridge?" she asked shortly. "You're all right," said the man's voice. She backed on to the bridge, reversed, let the car run forwards a few yards along the road, then backed into the lane, under a wych-elm tree, crushing the grass and bracken. Then all the lights went out. Connie stepped down. The man stood under the trees. "Did you wait long?" Connie asked. "Not so very," he replied. They both waited for Hilda to get out. But Hilda shut the door of the car and sat tight. "This is my sister Hilda. Won't you come and speak to her? Hilda! This is Mr. Mellors." The keeper lifted his hat, but went no nearer. "Do walk down to the cottage with us, Hilda," Connie pleaded. "It's not far." "What about the car?" "People do leave them on the lanes. You have the key." Hilda was silent, deliberating. Then she looked backwards down the lane. "Can I back round that bush?" she said. "Oh, yes!" said the keeper. She backed slowly round the curve, out of sight of the road, locked the car, and got down. It was night, but luminous dark. The hedges rose high and wild, by the unused lane, and very dark seeming. There was a fresh sweet scent on the air. The keeper went ahead, then came Connie, then Hilda, and in silence. He lit up the difficult places with a flashlight torch, and they went on again, while an owl softly hooted over the oaks, and Flossie padded silently around. Nobody could speak. There was nothing to say. At length Connie saw the yellow light of the house, and her heart beat fast. She was a little frightened. They trailed on, still in Indian file. He unlocked the door and preceded them into the warm but bare little room. The fire burned low and red in the grate. The table was set with two plates and two glasses, on a proper white tablecloth for once. Hilda shook her hair and looked round the bare, cheerless room. Then she summoned her courage and looked at the man. He was moderately tall, and thin, and she thought him good-looking. He kept a quiet distance of his own, and seemed absolutely unwilling to speak. "Do sit down, Hilda," said Connie. "Do!" he said. "Can I make you tea or anything, or will you drink a glass of beer? It's moderately cool." "Beer!" said Connie. "Beer for me, please!" said Hilda, with a mock sort of shyness. He looked at her and blinked. He took a blue jug and tramped to the scullery. When he came back with the beer, his face had changed again. Connie sat down by the door, and Hilda sat in his seat, with the back to the wall, against the window corner. "That is his chair," said Connie softly. And Hilda rose as if it had burnt her. "Sit yer still, sit yer still! Ta'e ony cheer as yo'n a mind to, none of us is th' big bear," he said, with complete equanimity. And he brought Hilda a glass, and poured her beer first from the blue jug. "As for cigarettes," he said, "I've got none, but 'appen you've got your own. I dunna smoke, mysen. Shall y' eat summat?" He turned direct to Connie. "Shall t'eat a smite o' summat, if I bring it thee? Tha can usually do wi' a bite." He spoke the vernacular with a curious calm assurance, as if he were the landlord of the inn. "What is there?" asked Connie, flushing. "Boiled ham, cheese, pickled wa'nuts, if yer like. Nowt much." "Yes," said Connie. "Won't you, Hilda?" Hilda looked up at him. "Why do you speak Yorkshire?" she said softly. "That! That's non Yorkshire, that's Derby." He looked back at her with that faint, distant grin. "Derby, then! Why do you speak Derby? You spoke natural English at first." "Did Ah though? An' canna Ah change if Ah'n a mind to 't? Nay nay, let me talk Derby if it suits me. If yo'n nowt against it." "It sounds a little affected," said Hilda. "Ay, 'appen so! An' up i' Tevershall yo'd sound affected." He looked again at her, with a queer calculating distance, along his cheek-bones: as if to say: Yi, an' who are you? He tramped away to the pantry for the food. The sisters sat in silence. He brought another plate, and knife and fork. Then he said: "An if it's the same to you, I s'll ta'e my coat off, like I allers do." And he took off his coat, and hung it on the peg, then sat down to table in his shirtsleeves: a shirt of thin, cream-coloured flannel. "'Elp yerselves!" he said. "'Elp yerselves! Dunna wait f'r axin!" He cut the bread, then sat motionless. Hilda felt, as Connie once used to, his power of silence and distance. She saw his smallish, sensitive, loose hand on the table. He was no simple working-man, not he: he was acting! acting! "Still!" she said, as she took a