attention this time was accepted. Sitting down at the extreme end, he came into the light, and I saw a burly man in the prime of life, dressed in dark brown velvet, with a blond little moustache and twinkling blue eyes and a tipsy look. I thought he might be some local tradesman or farmer. He asked a few questions, in a boisterous familiar fashion, then went out again. He appeared with a small iron spit, a slim rod, in one hand, and in the other hand two joints of kid and a handful of sausages. He stuck his joints on his rod. But our roaster still held the interminable flat kid before the now red, flameless fire. The fat-torch was burnt out, the cinder pushed in the fire. A moment's spurt of flame, then red, intense redness again, and our kid before it like a big, dark hand. "Eh," said the newcomer, whom I will call the girovago, "it's done. The kid's done. It's done." The roaster slowly shook his head, but did not answer. He sat like time and eternity at the hearth-end, his face flame-flushed, his dark eyes still fire-abstract, still sacredly intent on the roast. "Na-na-na!" said the girovago. "Let another body see the fire." And with his pieces of meat awkwardly skewered on his iron stick he tried to poke under the authorised kid and get at the fire. In his soft mutter, the old man bade him wait for the fire till the fire was ready for him. But the girovago poked impudently and good humouredly, and said testily that the authorised kid was done. "Yes, surely it is done," said I, for it was already a quarter to eight. The old roasting priest muttered, and took out his knife from his pocket. He pressed the blade slowly, slowly deep into the meat: as far as a knife will go in a piece of kid. He seemed to be feeling the meat inwardly. And he said it was not done. He shook his head, and remained there like time and eternity at the end of the rod. The girovago said _Sangue di Dio_, but couldn't roast his meat! And he tried to poke his skewer near the coals. So doing his pieces fell off into the ashes, and the invisible onlookers behind raised a shout of laughter. However, he raked it out and wiped it with his hand and said No matter, nothing lost. Then he turned to me and asked the usual whence and whither questions. These answered, he said wasn't I German. I said No, I was English. He looked at me many times, shrewdly, as if he wanted to make out something. Then he asked, where were we domiciled--and I said Sicily. And then, very pertinently, why had we come to Sardinia. I said for pleasure, and to see the island. "Ah, per divertimento!" he repeated, half-musingly, not believing me in the least. Various men had now come into the room, though they all remained indistinct in the background. The girovago talked and jested abroad in the company, and the half-visible men laughed in a rather hostile manner. At last the old roaster decided the kid was done. He lifted it from the fire and scrutinised it thoroughly, holding the candle to it, as if it were some wonderful epistle from the flames. To be sure it looked marvellous, and smelled so good: brown, and crisp, and hot, and savoury, not burnt in any place whatever. It was eight o'clock. "It's done! It's done! Go away with it! Go," said the girovago, pushing the old roaster with his hand. And at last the old man consented to depart, holding the kid like a banner. "It looks so _good_!" cried the q-b. "And I am so hungry." "Ha-ha! It makes one hungry to see good meat, Signora. Now it is my turn. Heh--Gino--" the girovago flourished his arm. And a handsome, unwashed man with a black moustache came forward rather sheepishly. He was dressed in soldier's clothes, neutral grey, and was a big, robust, handsome fellow with dark eyes and Mediterranean sheepishness. "Here, take it thou," said the girovago, pressing the long spit into his hand. "It is thy business, cook the supper, thou art the woman.--But I'll keep the sausages and do them." The so-called woman sat at the end of the hearth, where the old roaster had sat, and with his brown, nervous hand piled the remaining coals together. The fire was no longer flamy: and it was sinking. The dark-browed man arranged it so that he could cook the meat. He held the spit negligently over the red mass. A joint fell off. The men laughed. "It's lost nothing," said the dark-browed man, as the girovago had said before, and he skewered it on again and thrust it to the fire. But meanwhile he was looking up from under his dark lashes at the girovago and at us. The girovago talked continually. He turned to me, holding the handful of sausages. "This makes the tasty bit," he said. "Oh yes--good salsiccia," said I. "You are eating the kid? You are eating at the inn?" he said. I replied that I was. "No," he said. "You stay and eat with me. You eat with me. The sausage is good, the kid will soon be done, the fire is grateful." I laughed, not quite understanding him. He was certainly a bit tipsy. "Signora," he said, turning to the q-b. She did not like him, he was impudent, and she shut a deaf ear to him as far as she could. "Signora," he said, "do you understand me what I say?" She replied that she did. "Signora," he said, "I sell things to the women. I sell them things." "What do you sell?" she asked in astonishment. "Saints," he said. "Saints!" she cried in more astonishment. "Yes, saints," he said with tipsy gravity. She turned in confusion to the company in the background. The fat soldier came forward, he was the chief of the carabinieri. "Also combs and bits of soap and little mirrors," he explained sarcastically. "Saints!" said the girovago once more. "And also _ragazzini_--also youngsters--Wherever I go there is a little one comes running calling Babbo! Babbo! Daddy! Daddy! Wherever I go--youngsters. And I'm the babbo." All this was received with a kind of silent sneer from the invisible assembly in the background. The candle was burning low, the fire was sinking too. In vain the dark-browed man tried to build it up. The q-b became impatient for the food. She got up wrathfully and stumbled into the dark passage, exclaiming--"Don't we eat yet?" "Eh--Patience! Patience, Signora. It takes time in this house," said the man in the background. The dark-browed man looked up at the girovago and said: "Are you going to cook the sausages with your fingers?" He too was trying to be assertive and jesting, but he was the kind of person no one takes any notice of. The girovago rattled on in dialect, poking fun at us and at our being there in this inn. I did not quite follow. "Signora!" said the girovago. "Do you understand Sardinian?" "I understand Italian--and some Sardinian," she replied rather hotly. "And I know that you are trying to laugh at us--to make fun of us." He laughed fatly and comfortably. "Ah Signora," he said. "We have a language that you wouldn't understand--not one word. Nobody here would understand it but me and him--" he pointed to the black-browed one. "Everybody would want an interpreter--everybody." But he did not say interpreter--he said _intreprete_, with the accent on the penultimate, as if it were some sort of priest. "A what?" said I. He repeated with tipsy unction, and I saw what he meant. "Why?" said I. "Is it a dialect? What is your dialect?" "My dialect," he said, "is Sassari. I come from Sassari. If I spoke my dialect they would understand something. But if I speak this language they would want an interpreter." "What language is it then?" He leaned up to me, laughing. "It is the language we use when the women are buying things and we don't want them to know what we say: me and him--" "Oh," said I. "I know. We have that language in England. It is called thieves Latin--_Latino dei furbi_." The men at the back suddenly laughed, glad to turn the joke against the forward girovago. He looked down his nose at me. But seeing I was laughing without malice, he leaned to me and said softly, secretly: "What is your affair then? What affair is it, yours?" "How? What?" I exclaimed, not understanding. "_Che genere di affari?_ What sort of business?" "How--_affari_?" said I, still not grasping. "What do you _sell_?" he said, flatly and rather spitefully. "What goods?" "I don't sell anything," replied I, laughing to think he took us for some sort of strolling quacks or commercial travellers. "Cloth--or something,"