wants to be in dirty black, looking as if she was wrapped in burnt paper. It _does_ suit you, and _I_ say you look nice.” She sniffed in her little way, pleased, but pretending to know better. “Well,” she said, “it’s cost me just three shillings. You couldn’t have got it ready-made for that price, could you?” “I should think you couldn’t,” he replied. “And, you know, it’s good stuff.” “Awfully pretty,” he said. The blouse was white, with a little sprig of heliotrope and black. “Too young for me, though, I’m afraid,” she said. “Too young for you!” he exclaimed in disgust. “Why don’t you buy some false white hair and stick it on your head.” “I s’ll soon have no need,” she replied. “I’m going white fast enough.” “Well, you’ve no business to,” he said. “What do I want with a white-haired mother?” “I’m afraid you’ll have to put up with one, my lad,” she said rather strangely. They set off in great style, she carrying the umbrella William had given her, because of the sun. Paul was considerably taller than she, though he was not big. He fancied himself. On the fallow land the young wheat shone silkily. Minton pit waved its plumes of white steam, coughed, and rattled hoarsely. “Now look at that!” said Mrs. Morel. Mother and son stood on the road to watch. Along the ridge of the great pit-hill crawled a little group in silhouette against the sky, a horse, a small truck, and a man. They climbed the incline against the heavens. At the end the man tipped the wagon. There was an undue rattle as the waste fell down the sheer slope of the enormous bank. “You sit a minute, mother,” he said, and she took a seat on a bank, whilst he sketched rapidly. She was silent whilst he worked, looking round at the afternoon, the red cottages shining among their greenness. “The world is a wonderful place,” she said, “and wonderfully beautiful.” “And so’s the pit,” he said. “Look how it heaps together, like something alive almost—a big creature that you don’t know.” “Yes,” she said. “Perhaps!” “And all the trucks standing waiting, like a string of beasts to be fed,” he said. “And very thankful I am they _are_ standing,” she said, “for that means they’ll turn middling time this week.” “But I like the feel of _men_ on things, while they’re alive. There’s a feel of men about trucks, because they’ve been handled with men’s hands, all of them.” “Yes,” said Mrs. Morel. They went along under the trees of the highroad. He was constantly informing her, but she was interested. They passed the end of Nethermere, that was tossing its sunshine like petals lightly in its lap. Then they turned on a private road, and in some trepidation approached a big farm. A dog barked furiously. A woman came out to see. “Is this the way to Willey Farm?” Mrs. Morel asked. Paul hung behind in terror of being sent back. But the woman was amiable, and directed them. The mother and son went through the wheat and oats, over a little bridge into a wild meadow. Peewits, with their white breasts glistening, wheeled and screamed about them. The lake was still and blue. High overhead a heron floated. Opposite, the wood heaped on the hill, green and still. “It’s a wild road, mother,” said Paul. “Just like Canada.” “Isn’t it beautiful!” said Mrs. Morel, looking round. “See that heron—see—see her legs?” He directed his mother, what she must see and what not. And she was quite content. “But now,” she said, “which way? He told me through the wood.” The wood, fenced and dark, lay on their left. “I can feel a bit of a path this road,” said Paul. “You’ve got town feet, somehow or other, you have.” They found a little gate, and soon were in a broad green alley of the wood, with a new thicket of fir and pine on one hand, an old oak glade dipping down on the other. And among the oaks the bluebells stood in pools of azure, under the new green hazels, upon a pale fawn floor of oak-leaves. He found flowers for her. “Here’s a bit of new-mown hay,” he said; then, again, he brought her forget-me-nots. And, again, his heart hurt with love, seeing her hand, used with work, holding the little bunch of flowers he gave her. She was perfectly happy. But at the end of the riding was a fence to climb. Paul was over in a second. “Come,” he said, “let me help you.” “No, go away. I will do it in my own way.” He stood below with his hands up ready to help her. She climbed cautiously. “What a way to climb!” he exclaimed scornfully, when she was safely to earth again. “Hateful stiles!” she cried. “Duffer of a little woman,” he replied, “who can’t get over ’em.” In front, along the edge of the wood, was a cluster of low red farm buildings. The two hastened forward. Flush with the wood was the apple orchard, where blossom was falling on the grindstone. The pond was deep under a hedge and overhanging oak trees. Some cows stood in the shade. The farm and buildings, three sides of a quadrangle, embraced the sunshine towards the wood. It was very still. Mother and son went into the small railed garden, where was a scent of red gillivers. By the open door were some floury loaves, put out to cool. A hen was just coming to peck them. Then, in the doorway suddenly appeared a girl in a dirty apron. She was about fourteen years old, had a rosy dark face, a bunch of short black curls, very fine and free, and dark eyes; shy, questioning, a little resentful of the strangers, she disappeared. In a minute another figure appeared, a small, frail woman, rosy, with great dark brown eyes. “Oh!” she exclaimed, smiling with a little glow, “you’ve come, then. I _am_ glad to see you.” Her voice was intimate and rather sad. The two women shook hands. “Now are you sure we’re not a bother to you?” said Mrs. Morel. “I know what a farming life is.” “Oh no! We’re only too thankful to see a new face, it’s so lost up here.” “I suppose so,” said Mrs. Morel. They were taken through into the parlour—a long, low room, with a great bunch of guelder-roses in the fireplace. There the women talked, whilst Paul went out to survey the land. He was in the garden smelling the gillivers and looking at the plants, when the girl came out quickly to the heap of coal which stood by the fence. “I suppose these are cabbage-roses?” he said to her, pointing to the bushes along the fence. She looked at him with startled, big brown eyes. “I suppose they are cabbage-roses when they come out?” he said. “I don’t know,” she faltered. “They’re white with pink middles.” “Then they’re maiden-blush.” Miriam flushed. She had a beautiful warm colouring. “I don’t know,” she said. “You don’t have _much_ in your garden,” he said. “This is our first year here,” she answered, in a distant, rather superior way, drawing back and going indoors. He did not notice, but went his round of exploration. Presently his mother came out, and they went through the buildings. Paul was hugely delighted. “And I suppose you have the fowls and calves and pigs to look after?” said Mrs. Morel to Mrs. Leivers. “No,” replied the little woman. “I can’t find time to look after cattle, and I’m not used to it. It’s as much as I can do to keep going in the house.” “Well, I suppose it is,” said Mrs. Morel. Presently the girl came out. “Tea is ready, mother,” she said in a musical, quiet voice. “Oh, thank you, Miriam, then we’ll come,” replied her mother, almost ingratiatingly. “Would you _care_ to have tea now, Mrs. Morel?” “Of course,” said Mrs. Morel. “Whenever it’s ready.” Paul and his mother and Mrs. Leivers had tea together. Then they went out into the wood that was flooded with bluebells, while fumy forget-me-nots were in the paths. The mother and son were in ecstasy together. When they got back to the house, Mr. Leivers and Edgar, the eldest son, were in the kitchen. Edgar was about eighteen. Then Geoffrey and Maurice, big lads of twelve and thirteen, were in from school. Mr. Leivers was a good-looking man in the prime of life, with a golden-brown moustache, and blue eyes screwed up against the weather. The boys were condescending, but Paul scarcely observed it. They went round for eggs, scrambling into all sorts of places. As they were feeding the fowls Miriam came out. The boys took no notice of her. One hen, with her yellow chickens, was in a coop. Maurice took his hand full of corn and let