from either woman. “Well,” he said, “it’s only twopence ha’penny. I can pay you for that.” Being angry, he put three pennies on the table and slid them towards his mother. She turned away her head. Her mouth was shut tightly. “Yes,” said Annie, “you don’t know how badly my mother is!” The girl sat staring glumly into the fire. “Why is she badly?” asked Paul, in his overbearing way. “Well!” said Annie. “She could scarcely get home.” He looked closely at his mother. She looked ill. “_Why_ could you scarcely get home?” he asked her, still sharply. She would not answer. “I found her as white as a sheet sitting here,” said Annie, with a suggestion of tears in her voice. “Well, _why?_” insisted Paul. His brows were knitting, his eyes dilating passionately. “It was enough to upset anybody,” said Mrs. Morel, “hugging those parcels—meat, and green-groceries, and a pair of curtains—” “Well, why _did_ you hug them; you needn’t have done.” “Then who would?” “Let Annie fetch the meat.” “Yes, and I _would_ fetch the meat, but how was I to know. You were off with Miriam, instead of being in when my mother came.” “And what was the matter with you?” asked Paul of his mother. “I suppose it’s my heart,” she replied. Certainly she looked bluish round the mouth. “And have you felt it before?” “Yes—often enough.” “Then why haven’t you told me?—and why haven’t you seen a doctor?” Mrs. Morel shifted in her chair, angry with him for his hectoring. “You’d never notice anything,” said Annie. “You’re too eager to be off with Miriam.” “Oh, am I—and any worse than you with Leonard?” “_I_ was in at a quarter to ten.” There was silence in the room for a time. “I should have thought,” said Mrs. Morel bitterly, “that she wouldn’t have occupied you so entirely as to burn a whole ovenful of bread.” “Beatrice was here as well as she.” “Very likely. But we know why the bread is spoilt.” “Why?” he flashed. “Because you were engrossed with Miriam,” replied Mrs. Morel hotly. “Oh, very well—then it was _not!_” he replied angrily. He was distressed and wretched. Seizing a paper, he began to read. Annie, her blouse unfastened, her long ropes of hair twisted into a plait, went up to bed, bidding him a very curt good-night. Paul sat pretending to read. He knew his mother wanted to upbraid him. He also wanted to know what had made her ill, for he was troubled. So, instead of running away to bed, as he would have liked to do, he sat and waited. There was a tense silence. The clock ticked loudly. “You’d better go to bed before your father comes in,” said the mother harshly. “And if you’re going to have anything to eat, you’d better get it.” “I don’t want anything.” It was his mother’s custom to bring him some trifle for supper on Friday night, the night of luxury for the colliers. He was too angry to go and find it in the pantry this night. This insulted her. “If I _wanted_ you to go to Selby on Friday night, I can imagine the scene,” said Mrs. Morel. “But you’re never too tired to go if _she_ will come for you. Nay, you neither want to eat nor drink then.” “I can’t let her go alone.” “Can’t you? And why does she come?” “Not because I ask her.” “She doesn’t come without you want her—” “Well, what if I _do_ want her—” he replied. “Why, nothing, if it was sensible or reasonable. But to go trapseing up there miles and miles in the mud, coming home at midnight, and got to go to Nottingham in the morning—” “If I hadn’t, you’d be just the same.” “Yes, I should, because there’s no sense in it. Is she so fascinating that you must follow her all that way?” Mrs. Morel was bitterly sarcastic. She sat still, with averted face, stroking with a rhythmic, jerked movement, the black sateen of her apron. It was a movement that hurt Paul to see. “I do like her,” he said, “but—” “_Like_ her!” said Mrs. Morel, in the same biting tones. “It seems to me you like nothing and nobody else. There’s neither Annie, nor me, nor anyone now for you.” “What nonsense, mother—you know I don’t love her—I—I tell you I _don’t_ love her—she doesn’t even walk with my arm, because I don’t want her to.” “Then why do you fly to her so often?” “I _do_ like to talk to her—I never said I didn’t. But I _don’t_ love her.” “Is there nobody else to talk to?” “Not about the things we talk of. There’s a lot of things that you’re not interested in, that—” “What things?” Mrs. Morel was so intense that Paul began to pant. “Why—painting—and books. _You_ don’t care about Herbert Spencer.” “No,” was the sad reply. “And _you_ won’t at my age.” “Well, but I do now—and Miriam does—” “And how do you know,” Mrs. Morel flashed defiantly, “that _I_ shouldn’t. Do you ever try me!” “But you don’t, mother, you know you don’t care whether a picture’s decorative or not; you don’t care what _manner_ it is in.” “How do you know I don’t care? Do you ever try me? Do you ever talk to me about these things, to try?” “But it’s not that that matters to you, mother, you know it’s not.” “What is it, then—what is it, then, that matters to me?” she flashed. He knitted his brows with pain. “You’re old, mother, and we’re young.” He only meant that the interests of _her_ age were not the interests of his. But he realised the moment he had spoken that he had said the wrong thing. “Yes, I know it well—I am old. And therefore I may stand aside; I have nothing more to do with you. You only want me to wait on you—the rest is for Miriam.” He could not bear it. Instinctively he realised that he was life to her. And, after all, she was the chief thing to him, the only supreme thing. “You know it isn’t, mother, you know it isn’t!” She was moved to pity by his cry. “It looks a great deal like it,” she said, half putting aside her despair. “No, mother—I really _don’t_ love her. I talk to her, but I want to come home to you.” He had taken off his collar and tie, and rose, bare-throated, to go to bed. As he stooped to kiss his mother, she threw her arms round his neck, hid her face on his shoulder, and cried, in a whimpering voice, so unlike her own that he writhed in agony: “I can’t bear it. I could let another woman—but not her. She’d leave me no room, not a bit of room—” And immediately he hated Miriam bitterly. “And I’ve never—you know, Paul—I’ve never had a husband—not really—” He stroked his mother’s hair, and his mouth was on her throat. “And she exults so in taking you from me—she’s not like ordinary girls.” “Well, I don’t love her, mother,” he murmured, bowing his head and hiding his eyes on her shoulder in misery. His mother kissed him a long, fervent kiss. “My boy!” she said, in a voice trembling with passionate love. Without knowing, he gently stroked her face. “There,” said his mother, “now go to bed. You’ll be so tired in the morning.” As she was speaking she heard her husband coming. “There’s your father—now go.” Suddenly she looked at him almost as if in fear. “Perhaps I’m selfish. If you want her, take her, my boy.” His mother looked so strange, Paul kissed her, trembling. “Ha—mother!” he said softly. Morel came in, walking unevenly. His hat was over one corner of his eye. He balanced in the doorway. “At your mischief again?” he said venomously. Mrs. Morel’s emotion turned into sudden hate of the drunkard who had come in thus upon her. “At any rate, it is sober,” she said. “H’m—h’m! h’m—h’m!” he sneered. He went into the passage, hung up his hat and coat. Then they heard him go down three steps to the pantry. He returned with a piece of pork-pie in his fist. It was what Mrs. Morel had bought for her son. “Nor was that bought for you. If you can give me no more than twenty-five shillings, I’m sure I’m not going to buy you pork-pie to stuff, after you’ve swilled a bellyful of beer.” “Wha-at—wha-at!” snarled Morel, toppling in his balance. “Wha-at—not for me?” He looked at the piece of meat and crust, and suddenly, in a vicious spurt of temper, flung it into the fire. Paul started to his feet. “Waste your own stuff!” he cried. “What—what!” suddenly shouted Morel, jumping up and clenching his fist. “I’ll show yer, yer young jockey!” “All right!” said Paul viciously, putting his head on one side. “Show