house. He hesitated. He leaped up the step and was in the room. Her mother appeared in the inner doorway, large and hostile. “Who have you got there?” she asked. “It’s Mr. Morel; he has missed his train. I thought we might put him up for the night, and save him a ten-mile walk.” “H’m,” exclaimed Mrs. Radford. “That’s _your_ lookout! If you’ve invited him, he’s very welcome as far as I’m concerned. _You_ keep the house!” “If you don’t like me, I’ll go away again,” he said. “Nay, nay, you needn’t! Come along in! I dunno what you’ll think of the supper I’d got her.” It was a little dish of chip potatoes and a piece of bacon. The table was roughly laid for one. “You can have some more bacon,” continued Mrs. Radford. “More chips you can’t have.” “It’s a shame to bother you,” he said. “Oh, don’t you be apologetic! It doesn’t _do_ wi’ me! You treated her to the theatre, didn’t you?” There was a sarcasm in the last question. “Well?” laughed Paul uncomfortably. “Well, and what’s an inch of bacon! Take your coat off.” The big, straight-standing woman was trying to estimate the situation. She moved about the cupboard. Clara took his coat. The room was very warm and cosy in the lamplight. “My sirs!” exclaimed Mrs. Radford; “but you two’s a pair of bright beauties, I must say! What’s all that get-up for?” “I believe we don’t know,” he said, feeling a victim. “There isn’t room in _this_ house for two such bobby-dazzlers, if you fly your kites _that_ high!” she rallied them. It was a nasty thrust. He in his dinner jacket, and Clara in her green dress and bare arms, were confused. They felt they must shelter each other in that little kitchen. “And look at _that_ blossom!” continued Mrs. Radford, pointing to Clara. “What does she reckon she did it for?” Paul looked at Clara. She was rosy; her neck was warm with blushes. There was a moment of silence. “You like to see it, don’t you?” he asked. The mother had them in her power. All the time his heart was beating hard, and he was tight with anxiety. But he would fight her. “Me like to see it!” exclaimed the old woman. “What should I like to see her make a fool of herself for?” “I’ve seen people look bigger fools,” he said. Clara was under his protection now. “Oh, ay! and when was that?” came the sarcastic rejoinder. “When they made frights of themselves,” he answered. Mrs. Radford, large and threatening, stood suspended on the hearthrug, holding her fork. “They’re fools either road,” she answered at length, turning to the Dutch oven. “No,” he said, fighting stoutly. “Folk ought to look as well as they can.” “And do you call _that_ looking nice!” cried the mother, pointing a scornful fork at Clara. “That—that looks as if it wasn’t properly dressed!” “I believe you’re jealous that you can’t swank as well,” he said laughing. “Me! I could have worn evening dress with anybody, if I’d wanted to!” came the scornful answer. “And why didn’t you want to?” he asked pertinently. “Or _did_ you wear it?” There was a long pause. Mrs. Radford readjusted the bacon in the Dutch oven. His heart beat fast, for fear he had offended her. “Me!” she exclaimed at last. “No, I didn’t! And when I was in service, I knew as soon as one of the maids came out in bare shoulders what sort _she_ was, going to her sixpenny hop!” “Were you too good to go to a sixpenny hop?” he said. Clara sat with bowed head. His eyes were dark and glittering. Mrs. Radford took the Dutch oven from the fire, and stood near him, putting bits of bacon on his plate. “_There’s_ a nice crozzly bit!” she said. “Don’t give me the best!” he said. “_She’s_ got what _she_ wants,” was the answer. There was a sort of scornful forbearance in the woman’s tone that made Paul know she was mollified. “But _do_ have some!” he said to Clara. She looked up at him with her grey eyes, humiliated and lonely. “No thanks!” she said. “Why won’t you?” he answered carelessly. The blood was beating up like fire in his veins. Mrs. Radford sat down again, large and impressive and aloof. He left Clara altogether to attend to the mother. “They say Sarah Bernhardt’s fifty,” he said. “Fifty! She’s turned sixty!” came the scornful answer. “Well,” he said, “you’d never think it! She made me want to howl even now.” “I should like to see myself howling at _that_ bad old baggage!” said Mrs. Radford. “It’s time she began to think herself a grandmother, not a shrieking catamaran—” He laughed. “A catamaran is a boat the Malays use,” he said. “And it’s a word as _I_ use,” she retorted. “My mother does sometimes, and it’s no good my telling her,” he said. “I s’d think she boxes your ears,” said Mrs. Radford, good-humouredly. “She’d like to, and she says she will, so I give her a little stool to stand on.” “That’s the worst of my mother,” said Clara. “She never wants a stool for anything.” “But she often can’t touch _that_ lady with a long prop,” retorted Mrs. Radford to Paul. “I s’d think she doesn’t want touching with a prop,” he laughed. “_I_ shouldn’t.” “It might do the pair of you good to give you a crack on the head with one,” said the mother, laughing suddenly. “Why are you so vindictive towards me?” he said. “I’ve not stolen anything from you.” “No; I’ll watch that,” laughed the older woman. Soon the supper was finished. Mrs. Radford sat guard in her chair. Paul lit a cigarette. Clara went upstairs, returning with a sleeping-suit, which she spread on the fender to air. “Why, I’d forgot all about _them!_” said Mrs. Radford. “Where have they sprung from?” “Out of my drawer.” “H’m! You bought ’em for Baxter, an’ he wouldn’t wear ’em, would he?”—laughing. “Said he reckoned to do wi’out trousers i’ bed.” She turned confidentially to Paul, saying: “He couldn’t _bear_ ’em, them pyjama things.” The young man sat making rings of smoke. “Well, it’s everyone to his taste,” he laughed. Then followed a little discussion of the merits of pyjamas. “My mother loves me in them,” he said. “She says I’m a pierrot.” “I can imagine they’d suit you,” said Mrs. Radford. After a while he glanced at the little clock that was ticking on the mantelpiece. It was half-past twelve. “It is funny,” he said, “but it takes hours to settle down to sleep after the theatre.” “It’s about time you did,” said Mrs. Radford, clearing the table. “Are _you_ tired?” he asked of Clara. “Not the least bit,” she answered, avoiding his eyes. “Shall we have a game at cribbage?” he said. “I’ve forgotten it.” “Well, I’ll teach you again. May we play crib, Mrs. Radford?” he asked. “You’ll please yourselves,” she said; “but it’s pretty late.” “A game or so will make us sleepy,” he answered. Clara brought the cards, and sat spinning her wedding-ring whilst he shuffled them. Mrs. Radford was washing up in the scullery. As it grew later Paul felt the situation getting more and more tense. “Fifteen two, fifteen four, fifteen six, and two’s eight—!” The clock struck one. Still the game continued. Mrs. Radford had done all the little jobs preparatory to going to bed, had locked the door and filled the kettle. Still Paul went on dealing and counting. He was obsessed by Clara’s arms and throat. He believed he could see where the division was just beginning for her breasts. He could not leave her. She watched his hands, and felt her joints melt as they moved quickly. She was so near; it was almost as if he touched her, and yet not quite. His mettle was roused. He hated Mrs. Radford. She sat on, nearly dropping asleep, but determined and obstinate in her chair. Paul glanced at her, then at Clara. She met his eyes, that were angry, mocking, and hard as steel. Her own answered him in shame. He knew _she_, at any rate, was of his mind. He played on. At last Mrs. Radford roused herself stiffly, and said: “Isn’t it nigh on time you two was thinking o’ bed?” Paul played on without answering. He hated her sufficiently to murder her. “Half a minute,” he said. The elder woman rose and sailed stubbornly into the scullery, returning with his candle, which she put on the mantelpiece. Then she sat down again. The hatred of her went so hot down his veins, he dropped his cards. “We’ll stop, then,” he said, but his voice was still a challenge. Clara saw his mouth shut hard. Again he glanced at her. It seemed like an agreement. She bent over the cards, coughing, to clear her throat. “Well, I’m