all and gave nothing, he said. At least, she gave no living warmth. She was never alive, and giving off life. Looking for her was like looking for something which did not exist. She was only his conscience, not his mate. He hated her violently, and was more cruel to her. They dragged on till the next summer. He saw more and more of Clara. At last he spoke. He had been sitting working at home one evening. There was between him and his mother a peculiar condition of people frankly finding fault with each other. Mrs. Morel was strong on her feet again. He was not going to stick to Miriam. Very well; then she would stand aloof till he said something. It had been coming a long time, this bursting of the storm in him, when he would come back to her. This evening there was between them a peculiar condition of suspense. He worked feverishly and mechanically, so that he could escape from himself. It grew late. Through the open door, stealthily, came the scent of madonna lilies, almost as if it were prowling abroad. Suddenly he got up and went out of doors. The beauty of the night made him want to shout. A half-moon, dusky gold, was sinking behind the black sycamore at the end of the garden, making the sky dull purple with its glow. Nearer, a dim white fence of lilies went across the garden, and the air all round seemed to stir with scent, as if it were alive. He went across the bed of pinks, whose keen perfume came sharply across the rocking, heavy scent of the lilies, and stood alongside the white barrier of flowers. They flagged all loose, as if they were panting. The scent made him drunk. He went down to the field to watch the moon sink under. A corncrake in the hay-close called insistently. The moon slid quite quickly downwards, growing more flushed. Behind him the great flowers leaned as if they were calling. And then, like a shock, he caught another perfume, something raw and coarse. Hunting round, he found the purple iris, touched their fleshy throats and their dark, grasping hands. At any rate, he had found something. They stood stiff in the darkness. Their scent was brutal. The moon was melting down upon the crest of the hill. It was gone; all was dark. The corncrake called still. Breaking off a pink, he suddenly went indoors. “Come, my boy,” said his mother. “I’m sure it’s time you went to bed.” He stood with the pink against his lips. “I shall break off with Miriam, mother,” he answered calmly. She looked up at him over her spectacles. He was staring back at her, unswerving. She met his eyes for a moment, then took off her glasses. He was white. The male was up in him, dominant. She did not want to see him too clearly. “But I thought—” she began. “Well,” he answered, “I don’t love her. I don’t want to marry her—so I shall have done.” “But,” exclaimed his mother, amazed, “I thought lately you had made up your mind to have her, and so I said nothing.” “I had—I wanted to—but now I don’t want. It’s no good. I shall break off on Sunday. I ought to, oughtn’t I?” “You know best. You know I said so long ago.” “I can’t help that now. I shall break off on Sunday.” “Well,” said his mother, “I think it will be best. But lately I decided you had made up your mind to have her, so I said nothing, and should have said nothing. But I say as I have always said, I _don’t_ think she is suited to you.” “On Sunday I break off,” he said, smelling the pink. He put the flower in his mouth. Unthinking, he bared his teeth, closed them on the blossom slowly, and had a mouthful of petals. These he spat into the fire, kissed his mother, and went to bed. On Sunday he went up to the farm in the early afternoon. He had written Miriam that they would walk over the fields to Hucknall. His mother was very tender with him. He said nothing. But she saw the effort it was costing. The peculiar set look on his face stilled her. “Never mind, my son,” she said. “You will be so much better when it is all over.” Paul glanced swiftly at his mother in surprise and resentment. He did not want sympathy. Miriam met him at the lane-end. She was wearing a new dress of figured muslin that had short sleeves. Those short sleeves, and Miriam’s brown-skinned arms beneath them—such pitiful, resigned arms—gave him so much pain that they helped to make him cruel. She had made herself look so beautiful and fresh for him. She seemed to blossom for him alone. Every time he looked at her—a mature young woman now, and beautiful in her new dress—it hurt so much that his heart seemed almost to be bursting with the restraint he put on it. But he had decided, and it was irrevocable. On the hills they sat down, and he lay with his head in her lap, whilst she fingered his hair. She knew that “he was not there,” as she put it. Often, when she had him with her, she looked for him, and could not find him. But this afternoon she was not prepared. It was nearly five o’clock when he told her. They were sitting on the bank of a stream, where the lip of turf hung over a hollow bank of yellow earth, and he was hacking away with a stick, as he did when he was perturbed and cruel. “I have been thinking,” he said, “we ought to break off.” “Why?” she cried in surprise. “Because it’s no good going on.” “Why is it no good?” “It isn’t. I don’t want to marry. I don’t want ever to marry. And if we’re not going to marry, it’s no good going on.” “But why do you say this now?” “Because I’ve made up my mind.” “And what about these last months, and the things you told me then?” “I can’t help it! I don’t want to go on.” “You don’t want any more of me?” “I want us to break off—you be free of me, I free of you.” “And what about these last months?” “I don’t know. I’ve not told you anything but what I thought was true.” “Then why are you different now?” “I’m not—I’m the same—only I know it’s no good going on.” “You haven’t told me why it’s no good.” “Because I don’t want to go on—and I don’t want to marry.” “How many times have you offered to marry me, and I wouldn’t?” “I know; but I want us to break off.” There was silence for a moment or two, while he dug viciously at the earth. She bent her head, pondering. He was an unreasonable child. He was like an infant which, when it has drunk its fill, throws away and smashes the cup. She looked at him, feeling she could get hold of him and _wring_ some consistency out of him. But she was helpless. Then she cried: “I have said you were only fourteen—you are only _four!_” He still dug at the earth viciously. He heard. “You are a child of four,” she repeated in her anger. He did not answer, but said in his heart: “All right; if I’m a child of four, what do you want me for? _I_ don’t want another mother.” But he said nothing to her, and there was silence. “And have you told your people?” she asked. “I have told my mother.” There was another long interval of silence. “Then what do you _want?_” she asked. “Why, I want us to separate. We have lived on each other all these years; now let us stop. I will go my own way without you, and you will go your way without me. You will have an independent life of your own then.” There was in it some truth that, in spite of her bitterness, she could not help registering. She knew she felt in a sort of bondage to him, which she hated because she could not control it. She hated her love for him from the moment it grew too strong for her. And, deep down, she had hated him because she loved him and he dominated her. She had resisted his domination. She had fought to keep herself free of him in the last issue. And she _was_ free of him, even more than he of her. “And,” he continued, “we shall always be more or less each other’s work. You have done a lot for me, I for you. Now let us start and live by ourselves.” “What do you want to do?” she asked. “Nothing—only to be free,” he answered. She, however,