the hen peck from it. “Durst you do it?” he asked of Paul. “Let’s see,” said Paul. He had a small hand, warm, and rather capable-looking. Miriam watched. He held the corn to the hen. The bird eyed it with her hard, bright eye, and suddenly made a peck into his hand. He started, and laughed. “Rap, rap, rap!” went the bird’s beak in his palm. He laughed again, and the other boys joined. “She knocks you, and nips you, but she never hurts,” said Paul, when the last corn had gone. “Now, Miriam,” said Maurice, “you come an ’ave a go.” “No,” she cried, shrinking back. “Ha! baby. The mardy-kid!” said her brothers. “It doesn’t hurt a bit,” said Paul. “It only just nips rather nicely.” “No,” she still cried, shaking her black curls and shrinking. “She dursn’t,” said Geoffrey. “She niver durst do anything except recite poitry.” “Dursn’t jump off a gate, dursn’t tweedle, dursn’t go on a slide, dursn’t stop a girl hittin’ her. She can do nowt but go about thinkin’ herself somebody. ‘The Lady of the Lake.’ Yah!” cried Maurice. Miriam was crimson with shame and misery. “I dare do more than you,” she cried. “You’re never anything but cowards and bullies.” “Oh, cowards and bullies!” they repeated mincingly, mocking her speech. “Not such a clown shall anger me, A boor is answered silently” he quoted against her, shouting with laughter. She went indoors. Paul went with the boys into the orchard, where they had rigged up a parallel bar. They did feats of strength. He was more agile than strong, but it served. He fingered a piece of apple-blossom that hung low on a swinging bough. “I wouldn’t get the apple-blossom,” said Edgar, the eldest brother. “There’ll be no apples next year.” “I wasn’t going to get it,” replied Paul, going away. The boys felt hostile to him; they were more interested in their own pursuits. He wandered back to the house to look for his mother. As he went round the back, he saw Miriam kneeling in front of the hen-coop, some maize in her hand, biting her lip, and crouching in an intense attitude. The hen was eyeing her wickedly. Very gingerly she put forward her hand. The hen bobbed for her. She drew back quickly with a cry, half of fear, half of chagrin. “It won’t hurt you,” said Paul. She flushed crimson and started up. “I only wanted to try,” she said in a low voice. “See, it doesn’t hurt,” he said, and, putting only two corns in his palm, he let the hen peck, peck, peck at his bare hand. “It only makes you laugh,” he said. She put her hand forward and dragged it away, tried again, and started back with a cry. He frowned. “Why, I’d let her take corn from my face,” said Paul, “only she bumps a bit. She’s ever so neat. If she wasn’t, look how much ground she’d peck up every day.” He waited grimly, and watched. At last Miriam let the bird peck from her hand. She gave a little cry—fear, and pain because of fear—rather pathetic. But she had done it, and she did it again. “There, you see,” said the boy. “It doesn’t hurt, does it?” She looked at him with dilated dark eyes. “No,” she laughed, trembling. Then she rose and went indoors. She seemed to be in some way resentful of the boy. “He thinks I’m only a common girl,” she thought, and she wanted to prove she was a grand person like the “Lady of the Lake”. Paul found his mother ready to go home. She smiled on her son. He took the great bunch of flowers. Mr. and Mrs. Leivers walked down the fields with them. The hills were golden with evening; deep in the woods showed the darkening purple of bluebells. It was everywhere perfectly stiff, save for the rustling of leaves and birds. “But it is a beautiful place,” said Mrs. Morel. “Yes,” answered Mr. Leivers; “it’s a nice little place, if only it weren’t for the rabbits. The pasture’s bitten down to nothing. I dunno if ever I s’ll get the rent off it.” He clapped his hands, and the field broke into motion near the woods, brown rabbits hopping everywhere. “Would you believe it!” exclaimed Mrs. Morel. She and Paul went on alone together. “Wasn’t it lovely, mother?” he said quietly. A thin moon was coming out. His heart was full of happiness till it hurt. His mother had to chatter, because she, too, wanted to cry with happiness. “Now _wouldn’t_ I help that man!” she said. “_Wouldn’t_ I see to the fowls and the young stock! And _I’d_ learn to milk, and _I’d_ talk with him, and _I’d_ plan with him. My word, if I were his wife, the farm would be run, I know! But there, she hasn’t the strength—she simply hasn’t the strength. She ought never to have been burdened like it, you know. I’m sorry for her, and I’m sorry for him too. My word, if _I’d_ had him, I shouldn’t have thought him a bad husband! Not that she does either; and she’s very lovable.” William came home again with his sweetheart at the Whitsuntide. He had one week of his holidays then. It was beautiful weather. As a rule, William and Lily and Paul went out in the morning together for a walk. William did not talk to his beloved much, except to tell her things from his boyhood. Paul talked endlessly to both of them. They lay down, all three, in a meadow by Minton Church. On one side, by the Castle Farm, was a beautiful quivering screen of poplars. Hawthorn was dropping from the hedges; penny daisies and ragged robin were in the field, like laughter. William, a big fellow of twenty-three, thinner now and even a bit gaunt, lay back in the sunshine and dreamed, while she fingered with his hair. Paul went gathering the big daisies. She had taken off her hat; her hair was black as a horse’s mane. Paul came back and threaded daisies in her jet-black hair—big spangles of white and yellow, and just a pink touch of ragged robin. “Now you look like a young witch-woman,” the boy said to her. “Doesn’t she, William?” Lily laughed. William opened his eyes and looked at her. In his gaze was a certain baffled look of misery and fierce appreciation. “Has he made a sight of me?” she asked, laughing down on her lover. “That he has!” said William, smiling. He looked at her. Her beauty seemed to hurt him. He glanced at her flower-decked head and frowned. “You look nice enough, if that’s what you want to know,” he said. And she walked without her hat. In a little while William recovered, and was rather tender to her. Coming to a bridge, he carved her initials and his in a heart. heart She watched his strong, nervous hand, with its glistening hairs and freckles, as he carved, and she seemed fascinated by it. All the time there was a feeling of sadness and warmth, and a certain tenderness in the house, whilst William and Lily were at home. But often he got irritable. She had brought, for an eight-days’ stay, five dresses and six blouses. “Oh, would you mind,” she said to Annie, “washing me these two blouses, and these things?” And Annie stood washing when William and Lily went out the next morning. Mrs. Morel was furious. And sometimes the young man, catching a glimpse of his sweetheart’s attitude towards his sister, hated her. On Sunday morning she looked very beautiful in a dress of foulard, silky and sweeping, and blue as a jay-bird’s feather, and in a large cream hat covered with many roses, mostly crimson. Nobody could admire her enough. But in the evening, when she was going out, she asked again: “Chubby, have you got my gloves?” “Which?” asked William. “My new black _suède_.” “No.” There was a hunt. She had lost them. “Look here, mother,” said William, “that’s the fourth pair she’s lost since Christmas—at five shillings a pair!” “You only gave me _two_ of them,” she remonstrated. And in the evening, after supper, he stood on the hearthrug whilst she sat on the sofa, and he seemed to hate her. In the afternoon he had left her whilst he went to see some old friend. She had sat looking at a book. After supper William wanted to write a letter. “Here is your book, Lily,” said Mrs. Morel. “Would you care to go on with it for a few minutes?” “No, thank you,” said the girl. “I will sit still.” “But it is so dull.” William scribbled irritably at a great rate. As he sealed the envelope he said: “Read a book! Why, she’s never read a book in her life.” “Oh, go along!” said Mrs. Morel, cross with the exaggeration, “It’s true, mother—she