irked him. There was a certain silence between them, and he felt he had, in that silence, to defend himself against her; he felt condemned by her. Then sometimes he hated her, and pulled at her bondage. His life wanted to free itself of her. It was like a circle where life turned back on itself, and got no farther. She bore him, loved him, kept him, and his love turned back into her, so that he could not be free to go forward with his own life, really love another woman. At this period, unknowingly, he resisted his mother’s influence. He did not tell her things; there was a distance between them. Clara was happy, almost sure of him. She felt she had at last got him for herself; and then again came the uncertainty. He told her jestingly of the affair with her husband. Her colour came up, her grey eyes flashed. “That’s him to a ‘T’,” she cried—“like a navvy! He’s not fit for mixing with decent folk.” “Yet you married him,” he said. It made her furious that he reminded her. “I did!” she cried. “But how was I to know?” “I think he might have been rather nice,” he said. “You think _I_ made him what he is!” she exclaimed. “Oh no! he made himself. But there’s something about him—” Clara looked at her lover closely. There was something in him she hated, a sort of detached criticism of herself, a coldness which made her woman’s soul harden against him. “And what are you going to do?” she asked. “How?” “About Baxter.” “There’s nothing to do, is there?” he replied. “You can fight him if you have to, I suppose?” she said. “No; I haven’t the least sense of the ‘fist’. It’s funny. With most men there’s the instinct to clench the fist and hit. It’s not so with me. I should want a knife or a pistol or something to fight with.” “Then you’d better carry something,” she said. “Nay,” he laughed; “I’m not daggeroso.” “But he’ll do something to you. You don’t know him.” “All right,” he said, “we’ll see.” “And you’ll let him?” “Perhaps, if I can’t help it.” “And if he kills you?” she said. “I should be sorry, for his sake and mine.” Clara was silent for a moment. “You _do_ make me angry!” she exclaimed. “That’s nothing afresh,” he laughed. “But why are you so silly? You don’t know him.” “And don’t want.” “Yes, but you’re not going to let a man do as he likes with you?” “What must I do?” he replied, laughing. “_I_ should carry a revolver,” she said. “I’m sure he’s dangerous.” “I might blow my fingers off,” he said. “No; but won’t you?” she pleaded. “No.” “Not anything?” “No.” “And you’ll leave him to—?” “Yes.” “You are a fool!” “Fact!” She set her teeth with anger. “I could _shake_ you!” she cried, trembling with passion. “Why?” “Let a man like _him_ do as he likes with you.” “You can go back to him if he triumphs,” he said. “Do you want me to hate you?” she asked. “Well, I only tell you,” he said. “And _you_ say you _love_ me!” she exclaimed, low and indignant. “Ought I to slay him to please you?” he said. “But if I did, see what a hold he’d have over me.” “Do you think I’m a fool!” she exclaimed. “Not at all. But you don’t understand me, my dear.” There was a pause between them. “But you ought _not_ to expose yourself,” she pleaded. He shrugged his shoulders. “‘The man in righteousness arrayed, The pure and blameless liver, Needs not the keen Toledo blade, Nor venom-freighted quiver,’” he quoted. She looked at him searchingly. “I wish I could understand you,” she said. “There’s simply nothing to understand,” he laughed. She bowed her head, brooding. He did not see Dawes for several days; then one morning as he ran upstairs from the Spiral room he almost collided with the burly metal-worker. “What the—!” cried the smith. “Sorry!” said Paul, and passed on. “_Sorry!_” sneered Dawes. Paul whistled lightly, “Put Me among the Girls”. “I’ll stop your whistle, my jockey!” he said. The other took no notice. “You’re goin’ to answer for that job of the other night.” Paul went to his desk in his corner, and turned over the leaves of the ledger. “Go and tell Fanny I want order 097, quick!” he said to his boy. Dawes stood in the doorway, tall and threatening, looking at the top of the young man’s head. “Six and five’s eleven and seven’s one-and-six,” Paul added aloud. “An’ you hear, do you!” said Dawes. “_Five and ninepence!_” He wrote a figure. “What’s that?” he said. “I’m going to show you what it is,” said the smith. The other went on adding the figures aloud. “Yer crawlin’ little—, yer daresn’t face me proper!” Paul quickly snatched the heavy ruler. Dawes started. The young man ruled some lines in his ledger. The elder man was infuriated. “But wait till I light on you, no matter where it is, I’ll settle your hash for a bit, yer little swine!” “All right,” said Paul. At that the smith started heavily from the doorway. Just then a whistle piped shrilly. Paul went to the speaking-tube. “Yes!” he said, and he listened. “Er—yes!” He listened, then he laughed. “I’ll come down directly. I’ve got a visitor just now.” Dawes knew from his tone that he had been speaking to Clara. He stepped forward. “Yer little devil!” he said. “I’ll visitor you, inside of two minutes! Think I’m goin’ to have _you_ whipperty-snappin’ round?” The other clerks in the warehouse looked up. Paul’s office-boy appeared, holding some white article. “Fanny says you could have had it last night if you’d let her know,” he said. “All right,” answered Paul, looking at the stocking. “Get it off.” Dawes stood frustrated, helpless with rage. Morel turned round. “Excuse me a minute,” he said to Dawes, and he would have run downstairs. “By God, I’ll stop your gallop!” shouted the smith, seizing him by the arm. He turned quickly. “Hey! Hey!” cried the office-boy, alarmed. Thomas Jordan started out of his little glass office, and came running down the room. “What’s a-matter, what’s a-matter?” he said, in his old man’s sharp voice. “I’m just goin’ ter settle this little—, that’s all,” said Dawes desperately. “What do you mean?” snapped Thomas Jordan. “What I say,” said Dawes, but he hung fire. Morel was leaning against the counter, ashamed, half-grinning. “What’s it all about?” snapped Thomas Jordan. “Couldn’t say,” said Paul, shaking his head and shrugging his shoulders. “Couldn’t yer, couldn’t yer!” cried Dawes, thrusting forward his handsome, furious face, and squaring his fist. “Have you finished?” cried the old man, strutting. “Get off about your business, and don’t come here tipsy in the morning.” Dawes turned his big frame slowly upon him. “Tipsy!” he said. “Who’s tipsy? I’m no more tipsy than _you_ are!” “We’ve heard that song before,” snapped the old man. “Now you get off, and don’t be long about it. Comin’ _here_ with your rowdying.” The smith looked down contemptuously on his employer. His hands, large, and grimy, and yet well shaped for his labour, worked restlessly. Paul remembered they were the hands of Clara’s husband, and a flash of hate went through him. “Get out before you’re turned out!” snapped Thomas Jordan. “Why, who’ll turn me out?” said Dawes, beginning to sneer. Mr. Jordan started, marched up to the smith, waving him off, thrusting his stout little figure at the man, saying: “Get off my premises—get off!” He seized and twitched Dawes’s arm. “Come off!” said the smith, and with a jerk of the elbow he sent the little manufacturer staggering backwards. Before anyone could help him, Thomas Jordan had collided with the flimsy spring-door. It had given way, and let him crash down the half-dozen steps into Fanny’s room. There was a second of amazement; then men and girls were running. Dawes stood a moment looking bitterly on the scene, then he took his departure. Thomas Jordan was shaken and bruised, not otherwise hurt. He was, however, beside himself with rage. He dismissed Dawes from his employment, and summoned him for assault. At the trial Paul Morel had to give evidence. Asked how the trouble began, he said: “Dawes took occasion to insult Mrs. Dawes and me because I accompanied her to the theatre one evening; then I threw some beer at him, and he wanted his revenge.” “_Cherchez la femme!_” smiled the magistrate. The case was dismissed after the magistrate had told Dawes he thought him a skunk. “You gave the case away,” snapped Mr. Jordan to Paul. “I don’t think I did,” replied the latter. “Besides, you didn’t really want a conviction, did you?” “What do you think I took the case up for?” “Well,” said Paul, “I’m sorry if I said the wrong thing.” Clara