a dab hand at that, my lass.” “_I_ do nothing to make him miserable,” she retorted. “Oh no—oh no! A packet o’ butterscotch, you are.” She laughed a little. “You mustn’t think I _want_ him to be miserable,” she cried. “I don’t.” “We quite readily believe it,” retorted Brangwen. “Neither do you intend him to be hopping for joy like a fish in a pond.” This made her think. She was rather surprised to find that she did _not_ intend her husband to be hopping for joy like a fish in a pond. Her mother came, and they all sat down to tea, talking casually. “Remember, child,” said her mother, “that everything is not waiting for _your_ hand just to take or leave. You mustn’t expect it. Between two people, the love itself is the important thing, and that is neither you nor him. It is a third thing you must create. You mustn’t expect it to be just your way.” “Ha—nor do I. If I did I should soon find my mistake out. If _I_ put my hand out to take anything, my hand is very soon bitten, I can tell you.” “Then you must mind where you put your hand,” said her father. Anna was rather indignant that they took the tragedy of her young married life with such equanimity. “You love the man right enough,” said her father, wrinkling his forehead in distress. “That’s all as counts.” “I _do_ love him, more shame to him,” she cried. “I want to tell him—I’ve been waiting for four days now to tell him——” her face began to quiver, the tears came. Her parents watched her in silence. She did not go on. “Tell him what?” said her father. “That we’re going to have an infant,” she sobbed, “and he’s never, never let me, not once, every time I’ve come to him, he’s been horrid to me, and I wanted to tell him, I did. And he won’t let me—he’s cruel to me.” She sobbed as if her heart would break. Her mother went and comforted her, put her arms round her, and held her close. Her father sat with a queer, wrinkled brow, and was rather paler than usual. His heart went tense with hatred of his son-in-law. So that, when the tale was sobbed out, and comfort administered and tea sipped, and something like calm restored to the little circle, the thought of Will Brangwen’s entry was not pleasantly entertained. Tilly was set to watch out for him as he passed by on his way home. The little party at table heard the woman’s servant’s shrill call: “You’ve got to come in, Will. Anna’s here.” After a few moments, the youth entered. “Are you stopping?” he asked in his hard, harsh voice. He seemed like a blade of destruction standing there. She quivered to tears. “Sit you down,” said Tom Brangwen, “an’ take a bit off your length.” Will Brangwen sat down. He felt something strange in the atmosphere. He was dark browed, but his eyes had the keen, intent, sharp look, as if he could only see in the distance; which was a beauty in him, and which made Anna so angry. “Why does he always deny me?” she said to herself. “Why is it nothing to him, what I am?” And Tom Brangwen, blue-eyed and warm, sat in opposition to the youth. “How long are you stopping?” the young husband asked his wife. “Not very long,” she said. “Get your tea, lad,” said Tom Brangwen. “Are you itchin’ to be off the moment you enter?” They talked of trivial things. Through the open door the level rays of sunset poured in, shining on the floor. A grey hen appeared stepping swiftly in the doorway, pecking, and the light through her comb and her wattles made an oriflamme tossed here and there, as she went, her grey body was like a ghost. Anna, watching, threw scraps of bread, and she felt the child flame within her. She seemed to remember again forgotten, burning, far-off things. “Where was I born, mother?” she asked. “In London.” “And was my father”—she spoke of him as if he were merely a strange name: she could never connect herself with him—“was he dark?” “He had dark-brown hair and dark eyes and a fresh colouring. He went bald, rather bald, when he was quite young,” replied her mother, also as if telling a tale which was just old imagination. “Was he good-looking?” “Yes—he was very good-looking—rather small. I have never seen an Englishman who looked like him.” “Why?” “He was”—the mother made a quick, running movement with her hands—“his figure was alive and changing—it was never fixed. He was not in the least steady—like a running stream.” It flashed over the youth—Anna too was like a running stream. Instantly he was in love with her again. Tom Brangwen was frightened. His heart always filled with fear, fear of the unknown, when he heard his women speak of their bygone men as of strangers they had known in passing and had taken leave of again. In the room, there came a silence and a singleness over all their hearts. They were separate people with separate destinies. Why should they seek each to lay violent hands of claim on the other? The young people went home as a sharp little moon was setting in the dusk of spring. Tufts of trees hovered in the upper air, the little church pricked up shadowily at the top of the hill, the earth was a dark blue shadow. She put her hand lightly on his arm, out of her far distance. And out of the distance, he felt her touch him. They walked on, hand in hand, along opposite horizons, touching across the dusk. There was a sound of thrushes calling in the dark blue twilight. “I think we are going to have an infant, Bill,” she said, from far off. He trembled, and his fingers tightened on hers. “Why?” he asked, his heart beating. “You don’t know?” “I do,” she said. They continued without saying any more, walking along opposite horizons, hand in hand across the intervening space, two separate people. And he trembled as if a wind blew on to him in strong gusts, out of the unseen. He was afraid. He was afraid to know he was alone. For she seemed fulfilled and separate and sufficient in her half of the world. He could not bear to know that he was cut off. Why could he not be always one with her? It was he who had given her the child. Why could she not be with him, one with him? Why must he be set in this separateness, why could she not be with him, close, close, as one with him? She must be one with him. He held her fingers tightly in his own. She did not know what he was thinking. The blaze of light on her heart was too beautiful and dazzling, from the conception in her womb. She walked glorified, and the sound of the thrushes, of the trains in the valley, of the far-off, faint noises of the town, were her “Magnificat”. But he was struggling in silence. It seemed as though there were before him a solid wall of darkness that impeded him and suffocated him and made him mad. He wanted her to come to him, to complete him, to stand before him so that his eyes did not, should not meet the naked darkness. Nothing mattered to him but that she should come and complete him. For he was ridden by the awful sense of his own limitation. It was as if he ended uncompleted, as yet uncreated on the darkness, and he wanted her to come and liberate him into the whole. But she was complete in herself, and he was ashamed of his need, his helpless need of her. His need, and his shame of need, weighed on him like a madness. Yet still he was quiet and gentle, in reverence of her conception, and because she was with child by him. And she was happy in showers of sunshine. She loved her husband, as a presence, as a grateful condition. But for the moment her need was fulfilled, and now she wanted only to hold her husband by the hand in sheer happiness, without taking thought, only being glad. He had various folios of reproductions, and among them a cheap print from Fra Angelico’s “Entry of the Blessed into Paradise”. This filled Anna with bliss. The beautiful, innocent way in which the Blessed held each other by the hand as they moved towards the radiance, the real, real, angelic melody, made her weep with happiness. The floweriness, the beams of light, the linking of hands, was almost too much for her, too innocent. Day after day came shining through the door of Paradise, day after day she entered into the brightness. The child