his pocket for his own. Then, with its more ample capacity, she carefully dried his face. He remained motionless all the while. Then she drew his cheek to hers and kissed him. His face was cold. Her heart was hurt. She saw the tears welling quickly to his eyes again. As if he were a child, she again wiped away his tears. By now she herself was on the point of weeping. Her underlip was caught between her teeth. So she sat still, for fear of her own tears, sitting close by him, holding his hand warm and close and loving. Meanwhile the car ran on, and a soft, midsummer dusk began to gather. For a long while they sat motionless. Only now and again her hand closed more closely, lovingly, over his hand, then gradually relaxed. The dusk began to fall. One or two lights appeared. The driver drew up to light his lamps. Skrebensky moved for the first time, leaning forward to watch the driver. His face had always the same still, clarified, almost childlike look, impersonal. They saw the driver’s strange, full, dark face peering into the lamps under drawn brows. Ursula shuddered. It was the face almost of an animal yet of a quick, strong, wary animal that had them within its knowledge, almost within its power. She clung closer to Krebensky. “My love?” she said to him, questioningly, when the car was again running in full motion. He made no movement or sound. He let her hold his hand, he let her reach forward, in the gathering darkness, and kiss his still cheek. The crying had gone by—he would not cry any more. He was whole and himself again. “My love,” she repeated, trying to make him notice her. But as yet he could not. He watched the road. They were running by Kensington Gardens. For the first time his lips opened. “Shall we get out and go into the park,” he asked. “Yes,” she said, quietly, not sure what was coming. After a moment he took the tube from its peg. She saw the stout, strong, self-contained driver lean his head. “Stop at Hyde Park Corner.” The dark head nodded, the car ran on just the same. Presently they pulled up. Skrebensky paid the man. Ursula stood back. She saw the driver salute as he received his tip, and then, before he set the car in motion, turn and look at her, with his quick, powerful, animal’s look, his eyes very concentrated and the whites of his eyes flickering. Then he drove away into the crowd. He had let her go. She had been afraid. Skrebensky turned with her into the park. A band was still playing and the place was thronged with people. They listened to the ebbing music, then went aside to a dark seat, where they sat closely, hand in hand. Then at length, as out of the silence, she said to him, wondering: “What hurt you so?” She really did not know, at this moment. “When you said you wanted never to marry me,” he replied, with a childish simplicity. “But why did that hurt you so?” she said. “You needn’t mind everything I say so particularly.” “I don’t know—I didn’t want to do it,” he said, humbly, ashamed. She pressed his hand warmly. They sat close together, watching the soldiers go by with their sweethearts, the lights trailing in myriads down the great thoroughfares that beat on the edge of the park. “I didn’t know you cared so much,” she said, also humbly. “I didn’t,” he said. “I was knocked over myself.—But I care—all the world.” His voice was so quiet and colourless, it made her heart go pale with fear. “My love!” she said, drawing near to him. But she spoke out of fear, not out of love. “I care all the world—I care for nothing else—neither in life nor in death,” he said, in the same steady, colourless voice of essential truth. “Than for what?” she murmured duskily. “Than for you—to be with me.” And again she was afraid. Was she to be conquered by this? She cowered close to him, very close to him. They sat perfectly still, listening to the great, heavy, beating sound of the town, the murmur of lovers going by, the footsteps of soldiers. She shivered against him. “You are cold?” he said. “A little.” “We will go and have some supper.” He was now always quiet and decided and remote, very beautiful. He seemed to have some strange, cold power over her. They went to a restaurant, and drank chianti. But his pale, wan look did not go away. “Don’t leave me to-night,” he said at length, looking at her, pleading. He was so strange and impersonal, she was afraid. “But the people of my place,” she said, quivering. “I will explain to them—they know we are engaged.” She sat pale and mute. He waited. “Shall we go?” he said at length. “Where?” “To an hotel.” Her heart was hardened. Without answering, she rose to acquiesce. But she was now cold and unreal. Yet she could not refuse him. It seemed like fate, a fate she did not want. They went to an Italian hotel somewhere, and had a sombre bedroom with a very large bed, clean, but sombre. The ceiling was painted with a bunch of flowers in a big medallion over the bed. She thought it was pretty. He came to her, and cleaved to her very close, like steel cleaving and clinching on to her. Her passion was roused, it was fierce but cold. But it was fierce, and extreme, and good, their passion this night. He slept with her fast in his arms. All night long he held her fast against him. She was passive, acquiscent. But her sleep was not very deep nor very real. She woke in the morning to a sound of water dashed on a courtyard, to sunlight streaming through a lattice. She thought she was in a foreign country. And Skrebensky was there an incubus upon her. She lay still, thinking, whilst his arm was round her, his head against her shoulders, his body against hers, just behind her. He was still asleep. She watched the sunshine coming in bars through the _persiennes,_ and her immediate surroundings again melted away. She was in some other land, some other world, where the old restraints had dissolved and vanished, where one moved freely, not afraid of one’s fellow men, nor wary, nor on the defensive, but calm, indifferent, at one’s ease. Vaguely, in a sort of silver light, she wandered at large and at ease. The bonds of the world were broken. This world of England had vanished away. She heard a voice in the yard below calling: “O Giovann’—O’-O’-O’-Giovann’——!” And she knew she was in a new country, in a new life. It was very delicious to lie thus still, with one’s soul wandering freely and simply in the silver light of some other, simpler, more finely natural world. But always there was a foreboding waiting to command her. She became more aware of Skrebensky. She knew he was waking up. She must modify her soul, depart from her further world, for him. She knew he was awake. He lay still, with a concrete stillness, not as when he slept. Then his arm tightened almost convulsively upon her, and he said, half timidly: “Did you sleep well?” “Very well.” “So did I.” There was a pause. “And do you love me?” he asked. She turned and looked at him searchingly. He seemed outside her. “I do,” she said. But she said it out of complacency and a desire not to be harried. There was a curious breach of silence between them, which frightened him. They lay rather late, then he rang for breakfast. She wanted to be able to go straight downstairs and away from the place, when she got up. She was happy in this room, but the thought of the publicity of the hall downstairs rather troubled her. A young Italian, a Sicilian, dark and slightly pock-marked, buttoned up in a sort of grey tunic, appeared with the tray. His face had an almost African imperturbability, impassive, incomprehensible. “One might be in Italy,” Skrebensky said to him, genially. A vacant look, almost like fear, came on the fellow’s face. He did not understand. “This is like Italy,” Skrebensky explained. The face of the Italian flashed with a non-comprehending smile, he finished setting out the tray, and was gone. He did not understand: he would understand nothing: he disappeared from the door like a half-domesticated wild animal. It made Ursula shudder slightly, the quick, sharp-sighted, intent animality of the man. Skrebensky was beautiful to her this morning, his face softened and transfused with suffering and with love, his movements very still and gentle. He was beautiful to her, but she was detached from him by a chill distance. Always she seemed to