as it is.” “But what would you be doing if you went to war?” “I would be making railways or bridges, working like a nigger.” “But you’d only make them to be pulled down again when the armies had done with them. It seems just as much a game.” “If you call war a game.” “What is it?” “It’s about the most serious business there is, fighting.” A sense of hard separateness came over her. “Why is fighting more serious than anything else?” she asked. “You either kill or get killed—and I suppose it is serious enough, killing.” “But when you’re dead you don’t matter any more,” she said. He was silenced for a moment. “But the result matters,” he said. “It matters whether we settle the Mahdi or not.” “Not to you—nor me—we don’t care about Khartoum.” “You want to have room to live in: and somebody has to make room.” “But I don’t want to live in the desert of Sahara—do you?” she replied, laughing with antagonism. “_I_ don’t—but we’ve got to back up those who do. “Why have we?” “Where is the nation if we don’t?” “But we aren’t the nation. There are heaps of other people who are the nation.” “They might say _they_ weren’t either.” “Well, if everybody said it, there wouldn’t be a nation. But I should still be myself,” she asserted brilliantly. “You wouldn’t be yourself if there were no nation.” “Why not?” “Because you’d just be a prey to everybody and anybody.” “How a prey?” “They’d come and take everything you’d got.” “Well, they couldn’t take much even then. I don’t care what they take. I’d rather have a robber who carried me off than a millionaire who gave me everything you can buy.” “That’s because you are a romanticist.” “Yes, I am. I want to be romantic. I hate houses that never go away, and people just living in the houses. It’s all so stiff and stupid. I hate soldiers, they are stiff and wooden. What do you fight for, really?” “I would fight for the nation.” “For all that, you aren’t the nation. What would you do for yourself?” “I belong to the nation and must do my duty by the nation.” “But when it didn’t need your services in particular—when there is no fighting? What would you do then?” He was irritated. “I would do what everybody else does.” “What?” “Nothing. I would be in readiness for when I was needed.” The answer came in exasperation. “It seems to me,” she answered, “as if you weren’t anybody—as if there weren’t anybody there, where you are. Are you anybody, really? You seem like nothing to me.” They had walked till they had reached a wharf, just above a lock. There an empty barge, painted with a red and yellow cabin hood, but with a long, coal-black hold, was lying moored. A man, lean and grimy, was sitting on a box against the cabin-side by the door, smoking, and nursing a baby that was wrapped in a drab shawl, and looking into the glow of evening. A woman bustled out, sent a pail dashing into the canal, drew her water, and bustled in again. Children’s voices were heard. A thin blue smoke ascended from the cabin chimney, there was a smell of cooking. Ursula, white as a moth, lingered to look. Skrebensky lingered by her. The man glanced up. “Good evening,” he called, half impudent, half attracted. He had blue eyes which glanced impudently from his grimy face. “Good evening,” said Ursula, delighted. “_Isn’t_ it nice now?” “Ay,” said the man, “very nice.” His mouth was red under his ragged, sandy moustache. His teeth were white as he laughed. “Oh, but—” stammered Ursula, laughing, “it _is_. Why do you say it as if it weren’t?” “’Appen for them as is childt-nursin’ it’s none so rosy.” “May I look inside your barge?” asked Ursula. “There’s nobody’ll stop you; you come if you like.” The barge lay at the opposite bank, at the wharf. It was the _Annabel,_ belonging to J. Ruth of Loughborough. The man watched Ursula closely from his keen, twinkling eyes. His fair hair was wispy on his grimed forehead. Two dirty children appeared to see who was talking. Ursula glanced at the great lock gates. They were shut, and the water was sounding, spurting and trickling down in the gloom beyond. On this side the bright water was almost to the top of the gate. She went boldly across, and round to the wharf. Stooping from the bank, she peeped into the cabin, where was a red glow of fire and the shadowy figure of a woman. She _did_ want to go down. “You’ll mess your frock,” said the man, warningly. “I’ll be careful,” she answered. “May I come?” “Ay, come if you like.” She gathered her skirts, lowered her foot to the side of the boat, and leapt down, laughing. Coal-dust flew up. The woman came to the door. She was plump and sandy-haired, young, with an odd, stubby nose. “Oh, you _will_ make a mess of yourself,” she cried, surprised and laughing with a little wonder. “I did want to see. Isn’t it lovely living on a barge?” asked Ursula. “I don’t live on one altogether,” said the woman cheerfully. “She’s got her parlour an’ her plush suite in Loughborough,” said her husband with just pride. Ursula peeped into the cabin, where saucepans were boiling and some dishes were on the table. It was very hot. Then she came out again. The man was talking to the baby. It was a blue-eyed, fresh-faced thing with floss of red-gold hair. “Is it a boy or a girl?” she asked. “It’s a girl—aren’t you a girl, eh?” he shouted at the infant, shaking his head. Its little face wrinkled up into the oddest, funniest smile. “Oh!” cried Ursula. “Oh, the dear! Oh, how nice when she laughs!” “She’ll laugh hard enough,” said the father. “What is her name?” asked Ursula. “She hasn’t got a name, she’s not worth one,” said the man. “Are you, you fag-end o’ nothing?” he shouted to the baby. The baby laughed. “No we’ve been that busy, we’ve never took her to th’ registry office,” came the woman’s voice. “She was born on th’ boat here.” “But you know what you’re going to call her?” asked Ursula. “We did think of Gladys Em’ly,” said the mother. “We thought of nowt o’ th’ sort,” said the father. “Hark at him! What _do_ you want?’ cried the mother in exasperation. “She’ll be called Annabel after th’ boat she was born on.” “She’s not, so there,” said the mother, viciously defiant. The father sat in humorous malice, grinning. “Well, you’ll see,” he said. And Ursula could tell, by the woman’s vibrating exasperation, that he would never give way. “They’re all nice names,” she said. “Call her Gladys Annabel Emily.” “Nay, that’s heavy-laden, if you like,” he answered. “You see!” cried the woman. “He’s that _pig-headed!_” “And she’s so nice, and she laughs, and she hasn’t even got a name,” crooned Ursula to the child. “Let me hold her,” she added. He yielded her the child, that smelt of babies. But it had such blue, wide, china blue eyes, and it laughed so oddly, with such a taking grimace, Ursula loved it. She cooed and talked to it. It was such an odd, exciting child. “What’s _your_ name?” the man suddenly asked of her. “My name is Ursula—Ursula Brangwen,” she replied. “Ursula!” he exclaimed, dumbfounded. “There was a Saint Ursula. It’s a very old name,” she added hastily, in justification. “Hey, mother!” he called. There was no answer. “Pem!” he called, “can’t y’hear?” “What?” came the short answer. “What about ‘Ursula’?” he grinned. “What about _what?_” came the answer, and the woman appeared in the doorway, ready for combat. “Ursula—it’s the lass’s name there,” he said, gently. The woman looked the young girl up and down. Evidently she was attracted by her slim, graceful, new beauty, her effect of white elegance, and her tender way of holding the child. “Why, how do you write it?” the mother asked, awkward now she was touched. Ursula spelled out her name. The man looked at the woman. A bright, confused flush came over the mother’s face, a sort of luminous shyness. “It’s not a _common_ name, is it!” she exclaimed, excited as by an adventure. “Are you goin’ to have it then?” he asked. “I’d rather have it than Annabel,” she said, decisively. “An’ I’d rather have it than Gladys Em’ler,” he replied. There was a silence, Ursula looked up. “Will you really call her Ursula?” she asked. “Ursula Ruth,” replied the man, laughing vainly, as pleased as if he had found something. It was now Ursula’s turn to be confused. “It _does_ sound awfully nice,” she said. “I _must_ give her something. And I haven’t got anything at all.” She stood in her white dress, wondering, down there in the barge.