news to her mother, waiting for her father. Suspense and fear were strong upon her. She dreaded going to Kingston. Her easy dreams disappeared from the grasp of reality. And yet, as the afternoon wore away, the sweetness of the dream returned again. Kingston-on-Thames—there was such sound of dignity to her. The shadow of history and the glamour of stately progress enveloped her. The palaces would be old and darkened, the place of kings obscured. Yet it was a place of kings for her—Richard and Henry and Wolsey and Queen Elizabeth. She divined great lawns with noble trees, and terraces whose steps the water washed softly, where the swans sometimes came to earth. Still she must see the stately, gorgeous barge of the Queen float down, the crimson carpet put upon the landing stairs, the gentlemen in their purple-velvet cloaks, bare-headed, standing in the sunshine grouped on either side waiting. “Sweet Thames, run softly till I end my song.” Evening came, her father returned home, sanguine and alert and detached as ever. He was less real than her fancies. She waited whilst he ate his tea. He took big mouthfuls, big bites, and ate unconsciously with the same abandon an animal gives to its food. Immediately after tea he went over to the church. It was choir-practice, and he wanted to try the tunes on his organ. The latch of the big door clicked loudly as she came after him, but the organ rolled more loudly still. He was unaware. He was practicing the anthem. She saw his small, jet-black head and alert face between the candle-flames, his slim body sagged on the music-stool. His face was so luminous and fixed, the movements of his limbs seemed strange, apart from him. The sound of the organ seemed to belong to the very stone of the pillars, like sap running in them. Then there was a close of music and silence. “Father!” she said. He looked round as if at an apparition. Ursula stood shadowily within the candle-light. “What now?” he said, not coming to earth. It was difficult to speak to him. “I’ve got a situation,” she said, forcing herself to speak. “You’ve got what?” he answered, unwilling to come out of his mood of organ-playing. He closed the music before him. “I’ve got a situation to go to.” Then he turned to her, still abstracted, unwilling. “Oh, where’s that?” he said. “At Kingston-on-Thames. I must go on Thursday for an interview with the Committee.” “You must go on Thursday?” “Yes.” And she handed him the letter. He read it by the light of the candles. “Ursula Brangwen, Yew Tree Cottage, Cossethay, Derbyshire. “Dear Madam, You are requested to call at the above offices on Thursday next, the 10th, at 11.30 a.m., for an interview with the committee, referring to your application for the post of assistant mistress at the Wellingborough Green Schools.” It was very difficult for Brangwen to take in this remote and official information, glowing as he was within the quiet of his church and his anthem music. “Well, you needn’t bother me with it now, need you?’ he said impatiently, giving her back the letter. “I’ve got to go on Thursday,” she said. He sat motionless. Then he reached more music, and there was a rushing sound of air, then a long, emphatic trumpet-note of the organ, as he laid his hands on the keys. Ursula turned and went away. He tried to give himself again to the organ. But he could not. He could not get back. All the time a sort of string was tugging, tugging him elsewhere, miserably. So that when he came into the house after choir-practice his face was dark and his heart black. He said nothing however, until all the younger children were in bed. Ursula, however, knew what was brewing. At length he asked: “Where’s that letter?” She gave it to him. He sat looking at it. “You are requested to call at the above offices on Thursday next——” It was a cold, official notice to Ursula herself and had nothing to do with him. So! She existed now as a separate social individual. It was for her to answer this note, without regard to him. He had even no right to interfere. His heart was hard and angry. “You had to do it behind our backs, had you?” he said, with a sneer. And her heart leapt with hot pain. She knew she was free—she had broken away from him. He was beaten. “You said, ‘let her try,’” she retorted, almost apologizing to him. He did not hear. He sat looking at the letter. “Education Office, Kingston-on-Thames”—and then the typewritten “Miss Ursula Brangwen, Yew Tree Cottage, Cossethay.” It was all so complete and so final. He could not but feel the new position Ursula held, as recipient of that letter. It was an iron in his soul. “Well,” he said at length, “you’re not going.” Ursula started and could find no words to clamour her revolt. “If you think you’re going dancin’ off to th’ other side of London, you’re mistaken.” “Why not?” she cried, at once hard fixed in her will to go. “That’s why not,” he said. And there was silence till Mrs. Brangwen came downstairs. “Look here, Anna,” he said, handing her the letter. She put back her head, seeing a typewritten letter, anticipating trouble from the outside world. There was the curious, sliding motion of her eyes, as if she shut off her sentient, maternal self, and a kind of hard trance, meaningless, took its place. Thus, meaningless, she glanced over the letter, careful not to take it in. She apprehended the contents with her callous, superficial mind. Her feeling self was shut down. “What post is it?” she asked. “She wants to go and be a teacher in Kingston-on-Thames, at fifty pounds a year.” “Oh, indeed.” The mother spoke as if it were a hostile fact concerning some stranger. She would have let her go, out of callousness. Mrs. Brangwen would begin to grow up again only with her youngest child. Her eldest girl was in the way now. “She’s not going all that distance,” said the father. “I have to go where they want me,” cried Ursula. “And it’s a good place to go to.” “What do you know about the place?” said her father harshly. “And it doesn’t matter whether they want you or not, if your father says you are not to go,” said the mother calmly. How Ursula hated her! “You said I was to try,” the girl cried. “Now I’ve got a place and I’m going to go.” “You’re not going all that distance,” said her father. “Why don’t you get a place at Ilkeston, where you can live at home?” asked Gudrun, who hated conflicts, who could not understand Ursula’s uneasy way, yet who must stand by her sister. “There aren’t any places in Ilkeston,” cried Ursula. “And I’d rather go right away.” “If you’d asked about it, a place could have been got for you in Ilkeston. But you had to play Miss High-an’-mighty, and go your own way,” said her father. “I’ve no doubt you’d rather go right away,” said her mother, very caustic. “And I’ve no doubt you’d find other people didn’t put up with you for very long either. You’ve too much opinion of yourself for your good.” Between the girl and her mother was a feeling of pure hatred. There came a stubborn silence. Ursula knew she must break it. “Well, they’ve written to me, and I s’ll have to go,” she said. “Where will you get the money from?” asked her father. “Uncle Tom will give it me,” she said. Again there was silence. This time she was triumphant. Then at length her father lifted his head. His face was abstracted, he seemed to be abstracting himself, to make a pure statement. “Well, you’re not going all that distance away,” he said. “I’ll ask Mr. Burt about a place here. I’m not going to have you by yourself at the other side of London.” “But I’ve _got_ to go to Kingston,” said Ursula. “They’ve sent for me.” “They’ll do without you,” he said. There was a trembling silence when she was on the point of tears. “Well,” she said, low and tense, “you can put me off this, but I’m _going_ to have a place. I’m _not_ going to stop at home.” “Nobody wants you to stop at home,” he suddenly shouted, going livid with rage. She said no more. Her nature had gone hard and smiling in its own arrogance, in its own antagonistic indifference to the rest of them. This was the state in which he wanted to kill her. She went singing into the parlour. “C’est la mère Michel qui a perdu son chat, Qui cri par la fenêtre qu’est-ce qui le lui renda——” During the next days Ursula went about bright and hard, singing to herself, making