will. Outside it was still raining. “Let’s have a walk,” he said. “I don’t mind the rain, do you?” “No, I don’t mind it,” she said. He was alert in every sense and fibre, and yet quite sure and steady, and lit up, as if transfused. He had a free sensation of walking in his own darkness, not in anybody else’s world at all. He was purely a world to himself, he had nothing to do with any general consciousness. Just his own senses were supreme. All the rest was external, insignificant, leaving him alone with this girl whom he wanted to absorb, whose properties he wanted to absorb into his own senses. He did not care about her, except that he wanted to overcome her resistance, to have her in his power, fully and exhaustively to enjoy her. They turned into the dark streets. He held her umbrella over her, and put his arm round her. She walked as if she were unaware. But gradually, as he walked, he drew her a little closer, into the movement of his side and hip. She fitted in there very well. It was a real good fit, to walk with her like this. It made him exquisitely aware of his own muscular self. And his hand that grasped her side felt one curve of her, and it seemed like a new creation to him, a reality, an absolute, an existing tangible beauty of the absolute. It was like a star. Everything in him was absorbed in the sensual delight of this one small, firm curve in her body, that his hand, and his whole being, had lighted upon. He led her into the Park, where it was almost dark. He noticed a corner between two walls, under a great overhanging bush of ivy. “Let us stand here a minute,” he said. He put down the umbrella, and followed her into the corner, retreating out of the rain. He needed no eyes to see. All he wanted was to know through touch. She was like a piece of palpable darkness. He found her in the darkness, put his arms round her and his hands upon her. She was silent and inscrutable. But he did not want to know anything about her, he only wanted to discover her. And through her clothing, what absolute beauty he touched. “Take your hat off,” he said. Silently, obediently, she shook off her hat and gave herself to his arms again. He liked her—he liked the feel of her—he wanted to know her more closely. He let his fingers subtly seek out her cheek and neck. What amazing beauty and pleasure, in the dark! His fingers had often touched Anna on the face and neck like that. What matter! It was one man who touched Anna, another who now touched this girl. He liked best his new self. He was given over altogether to the sensuous knowledge of this woman, and every moment he seemed to be touching absolute beauty, something beyond knowledge. Very close, marvelling and exceedingly joyful in their discoveries, his hands pressed upon her, so subtly, so seekingly, so finely and desirously searching her out, that she too was almost swooning in the absolute of sensual knowledge. In utter sensual delight she clenched her knees, her thighs, her loins together! It was an added beauty to him. But he was patiently working for her relaxation, patiently, his whole being fixed in the smile of latent gratification, his whole body electric with a subtle, powerful, reducing force upon her. So he came at length to kiss her, and she was almost betrayed by his insidious kiss. Her open mouth was too helpless and unguarded. He knew this, and his first kiss was very gentle, and soft, and assuring, so assuring. So that her soft, defenseless mouth became assured, even bold, seeking upon his mouth. And he answered her gradually, gradually, his soft kiss sinking in softly, softly, but ever more heavily, more heavily yet, till it was too heavy for her to meet, and she began to sink under it. She was sinking, sinking, his smile of latent gratification was becoming more tense, he was sure of her. He let the whole force of his will sink upon her to sweep her away. But it was too great a shock for her. With a sudden horrible movement she ruptured the state that contained them both. “Don’t—don’t!” It was a rather horrible cry that seemed to come out of her, not to belong to her. It was some strange agony of terror crying out the words. There was something vibrating and beside herself in the noise. His nerves ripped like silk. “What’s the matter?” he said, as if calmly. “What’s the matter?” She came back to him, but trembling, reservedly this time. Her cry had given him gratification. But he knew he had been too sudden for her. He was now careful. For a while he merely sheltered her. Also there had broken a flaw into his perfect will. He wanted to persist, to begin again, to lead up to the point where he had let himself go on her, and then manage more carefully, successfully. So far she had won. And the battle was not over yet. But another voice woke in him and prompted him to let her go—let her go in contempt. He sheltered her, and soothed her, and caressed her, and kissed her, and again began to come nearer, nearer. He gathered himself together. Even if he did not take her, he would make her relax, he would fuse away her resistance. So softly, softly, with infinite caressiveness he kissed her, and the whole of his being seemed to fondle her. Till, at the verge, swooning at the breaking point, there came from her a beaten, inarticulate, moaning cry: “Don’t—oh, don’t!” His veins fused with extreme voluptuousness. For a moment he almost lost control of himself, and continued automatically. But there was a moment of inaction, of cold suspension. He was not going to take her. He drew her to him and soothed her, and caressed her. But the pure zest had gone. She struggled to herself and realized he was not going to take her. And then, at the very last moment, when his fondling had come near again, his hot living desire despising her, against his cold sensual desire, she broke violently away from him. “Don’t,” she cried, harsh now with hatred, and she flung her hand across and hit him violently. “Keep off of me.” His blood stood still for a moment. Then the smile came again within him, steady, cruel. “Why, what’s the matter?” he said, with suave irony. “Nobody’s going to hurt you.” “I know what _you_ want,” she said. “_I_ know what I want,” he said. “What’s the odds?” “Well, you’re not going to have it off _me._” “Aren’t I? Well, then I’m not. It’s no use crying about it, is it?” “No, it isn’t,” said the girl, rather disconcerted by his irony. “But there’s no need to have a row about it. We can kiss good night just the same, can’t we?” She was silent in the darkness. “Or do you want your hat and umbrella to go home this minute?” Still she was silent. He watched her dark figure as she stood there on the edge of the faint darkness, and he waited. “Come and say good night nicely, if we’re going to say it,” he said. Still she did not stir. He put his hand out and drew her into the darkness again. “It’s warmer in here,” he said; “a lot cosier.” His will had not yet relaxed from her. The moment of hatred exhilarated him. “I’m going now,” she muttered, as he closed his hand over her. “See how well you fit your place,” he said, as he drew her to her previous position, close upon him. “What do you want to leave it for?” And gradually the intoxication invaded him again, the zest came back. After all, why should he not take her? But she did not yield to him entirely. “Are you a married man?” she asked at length. “What if I am?” he said. She did not answer. “I don’t ask you whether _you’re_ married or not,” he said. “You know jolly well I’m _not,”_ she answered hotly. Oh, if she could only break away from him, if only she need not yield to him. At length her will became cold against him. She had escaped. But she hated him for her escape more than for her danger. Did he despise her so coldly? And she was in torture of adherence to him still. “Shall I see you next week—next Saturday?” he said, as they returned to the town. She did not answer. “Come to the Empire with me—you and Gertie,” he said. “I should look well, going with a married man,” she said. “I’m no less of a man