wanted to come to the station.” “No, we’ve come today!” cried Ursula. “Isn’t it lovely here!” “Adorable!” said Gudrun. “Gerald’s just gone out to get something. Ursula, aren’t you _fearfully_ tired?” “No, not so very. But I look a filthy sight, don’t I!” “No, you don’t. You look almost perfectly fresh. I like that fur cap _immensely!_” She glanced over Ursula, who wore a big soft coat with a collar of deep, soft, blond fur, and a soft blond cap of fur. “And you!” cried Ursula. “What do you think _you_ look like!” Gudrun assumed an unconcerned, expressionless face. “Do you like it?” she said. “It’s _very_ fine!” cried Ursula, perhaps with a touch of satire. “Go up—or come down,” said Birkin. For there the sisters stood, Gudrun with her hand on Ursula’s arm, on the turn of the stairs half way to the first landing, blocking the way and affording full entertainment to the whole of the hall below, from the door porter to the plump Jew in black clothes. The two young women slowly mounted, followed by Birkin and the waiter. “First floor?” asked Gudrun, looking back over her shoulder. “Second Madam—the lift!” the waiter replied. And he darted to the elevator to forestall the two women. But they ignored him, as, chattering without heed, they set to mount the second flight. Rather chagrined, the waiter followed. It was curious, the delight of the sisters in each other, at this meeting. It was as if they met in exile, and united their solitary forces against all the world. Birkin looked on with some mistrust and wonder. When they had bathed and changed, Gerald came in. He looked shining like the sun on frost. “Go with Gerald and smoke,” said Ursula to Birkin. “Gudrun and I want to talk.” Then the sisters sat in Gudrun’s bedroom, and talked clothes, and experiences. Gudrun told Ursula the experience of the Birkin letter in the café. Ursula was shocked and frightened. “Where is the letter?” she asked. “I kept it,” said Gudrun. “You’ll give it me, won’t you?” she said. But Gudrun was silent for some moments, before she replied: “Do you really want it, Ursula?” “I want to read it,” said Ursula. “Certainly,” said Gudrun. Even now, she could not admit, to Ursula, that she wanted to keep it, as a memento, or a symbol. But Ursula knew, and was not pleased. So the subject was switched off. “What did you do in Paris?” asked Ursula. “Oh,” said Gudrun laconically—“the usual things. We had a _fine_ party one night in Fanny Bath’s studio.” “Did you? And you and Gerald were there! Who else? Tell me about it.” “Well,” said Gudrun. “There’s nothing particular to tell. You know Fanny is _frightfully_ in love with that painter, Billy Macfarlane. He was there—so Fanny spared nothing, she spent _very_ freely. It was really remarkable! Of course, everybody got fearfully drunk—but in an interesting way, not like that filthy London crowd. The fact is these were all people that matter, which makes all the difference. There was a Roumanian, a fine chap. He got completely drunk, and climbed to the top of a high studio ladder, and gave the most marvellous address—really, Ursula, it was wonderful! He began in French—_La vie, c’est une affaire d’âmes impériales_—in a most beautiful voice—he was a fine-looking chap—but he had got into Roumanian before he had finished, and not a soul understood. But Donald Gilchrist was worked to a frenzy. He dashed his glass to the ground, and declared, by God, he was glad he had been born, by God, it was a miracle to be alive. And do you know, Ursula, so it was—” Gudrun laughed rather hollowly. “But how was Gerald among them all?” asked Ursula. “Gerald! Oh, my word, he came out like a dandelion in the sun! _He’s_ a whole saturnalia in himself, once he is roused. I shouldn’t like to say whose waist his arm did not go round. Really, Ursula, he seems to reap the women like a harvest. There wasn’t one that would have resisted him. It was too amazing! Can you understand it?” Ursula reflected, and a dancing light came into her eyes. “Yes,” she said. “I can. He is such a whole-hogger.” “Whole-hogger! I should think so!” exclaimed Gudrun. “But it is true, Ursula, every woman in the room was ready to surrender to him. Chanticleer isn’t in it—even Fanny Bath, who is _genuinely_ in love with Billy Macfarlane! I never was more amazed in my life! And you know, afterwards—I felt I was a whole _roomful_ of women. I was no more myself to him, than I was Queen Victoria. I was a whole roomful of women at once. It was most astounding! But my eye, I’d caught a Sultan that time—” Gudrun’s eyes were flashing, her cheek was hot, she looked strange, exotic, satiric. Ursula was fascinated at once—and yet uneasy. They had to get ready for dinner. Gudrun came down in a daring gown of vivid green silk and tissue of gold, with green velvet bodice and a strange black-and-white band round her hair. She was really brilliantly beautiful and everybody noticed her. Gerald was in that full-blooded, gleaming state when he was most handsome. Birkin watched them with quick, laughing, half-sinister eyes, Ursula quite lost her head. There seemed a spell, almost a blinding spell, cast round their table, as if they were lighted up more strongly than the rest of the dining-room. “Don’t you love to be in this place?” cried Gudrun. “Isn’t the snow wonderful! Do you notice how it exalts everything? It is simply marvellous. One really does feel _übermenschlich_—more than human.” “One does,” cried Ursula. “But isn’t that partly the being out of England?” “Oh, of course,” cried Gudrun. “One could never feel like this in England, for the simple reason that the damper is _never_ lifted off one, there. It is quite impossible really to let go, in England, of that I am assured.” And she turned again to the food she was eating. She was fluttering with vivid intensity. “It’s quite true,” said Gerald, “it never is quite the same in England. But perhaps we don’t want it to be—perhaps it’s like bringing the light a little too near the powder-magazine, to let go altogether, in England. One is afraid what might happen, if _everybody else_ let go.” “My God!” cried Gudrun. “But wouldn’t it be wonderful, if all England did suddenly go off like a display of fireworks.” “It couldn’t,” said Ursula. “They are all too damp, the powder is damp in them.” “I’m not so sure of that,” said Gerald. “Nor I,” said Birkin. “When the English really begin to go off, _en masse_, it’ll be time to shut your ears and run.” “They never will,” said Ursula. “We’ll see,” he replied. “Isn’t it marvellous,” said Gudrun, “how thankful one can be, to be out of one’s country. I cannot believe myself, I am so transported, the moment I set foot on a foreign shore. I say to myself ‘Here steps a new creature into life.’” “Don’t be too hard on poor old England,” said Gerald. “Though we curse it, we love it really.” To Ursula, there seemed a fund of cynicism in these words. “We may,” said Birkin. “But it’s a damnably uncomfortable love: like a love for an aged parent who suffers horribly from a complication of diseases, for which there is no hope.” Gudrun looked at him with dilated dark eyes. “You think there is no hope?” she asked, in her pertinent fashion. But Birkin backed away. He would not answer such a question. “Any hope of England’s becoming real? God knows. It’s a great actual unreality now, an aggregation into unreality. It might be real, if there were no Englishmen.” “You think the English will have to disappear?” persisted Gudrun. It was strange, her pointed interest in his answer. It might have been her own fate she was inquiring after. Her dark, dilated eyes rested on Birkin, as if she could conjure the truth of the future out of him, as out of some instrument of divination. He was pale. Then, reluctantly, he answered: “Well—what else is in front of them, but disappearance? They’ve got to disappear from their own special brand of Englishness, anyhow.” Gudrun watched him as if in a hypnotic state, her eyes wide and fixed on him. “But in what way do you mean, disappear?—” she persisted. “Yes, do you mean a change of heart?” put in Gerald. “I don’t mean anything, why should I?” said Birkin. “I’m an Englishman, and I’ve paid the price of it. I can’t talk about England—I can only speak for myself.” “Yes,” said Gudrun slowly, “you love England immensely, _immensely_, Rupert.” “And leave her,” he replied. “No, not for good. You’ll come back,” said Gerald, nodding sagely. “They say the lice crawl off a dying body,” said Birkin, with a glare of bitterness. “So