up, suddenly erect. “I hate it,” she said. “I hate the snow, and the unnaturalness of it, the unnatural light it throws on everybody, the ghastly glamour, the unnatural feelings it makes everybody have.” He lay still and laughed, meditating. “Well,” he said, “we can go away—we can go tomorrow. We’ll go tomorrow to Verona, and find Romeo and Juliet, and sit in the amphitheatre—shall we?” Suddenly she hid her face against his shoulder with perplexity and shyness. He lay so untrammelled. “Yes,” she said softly, filled with relief. She felt her soul had new wings, now he was so uncaring. “I shall love to be Romeo and Juliet,” she said. “My love!” “Though a fearfully cold wind blows in Verona,” he said, “from out of the Alps. We shall have the smell of the snow in our noses.” She sat up and looked at him. “Are you glad to go?” she asked, troubled. His eyes were inscrutable and laughing. She hid her face against his neck, clinging close to him, pleading: “Don’t laugh at me—don’t laugh at me.” “Why how’s that?” he laughed, putting his arms round her. “Because I don’t want to be laughed at,” she whispered. He laughed more, as he kissed her delicate, finely perfumed hair. “Do you love me?” she whispered, in wild seriousness. “Yes,” he answered, laughing. Suddenly she lifted her mouth to be kissed. Her lips were taut and quivering and strenuous, his were soft, deep and delicate. He waited a few moments in the kiss. Then a shade of sadness went over his soul. “Your mouth is so hard,” he said, in faint reproach. “And yours is so soft and nice,” she said gladly. “But why do you always grip your lips?” he asked, regretful. “Never mind,” she said swiftly. “It is my way.” She knew he loved her; she was sure of him. Yet she could not let go a certain hold over herself, she could not bear him to question her. She gave herself up in delight to being loved by him. She knew that, in spite of his joy when she abandoned herself, he was a little bit saddened too. She could give herself up to his activity. But she could not be herself, she _dared_ not come forth quite nakedly to his nakedness, abandoning all adjustment, lapsing in pure faith with him. She abandoned herself to _him_, or she took hold of him and gathered her joy of him. And she enjoyed him fully. But they were never _quite_ together, at the same moment, one was always a little left out. Nevertheless she was glad in hope, glorious and free, full of life and liberty. And he was still and soft and patient, for the time. They made their preparations to leave the next day. First they went to Gudrun’s room, where she and Gerald were just dressed ready for the evening indoors. “Prune,” said Ursula, “I think we shall go away tomorrow. I can’t stand the snow any more. It hurts my skin and my soul.” “Does it really hurt your soul, Ursula?” asked Gudrun, in some surprise. “I can believe quite it hurts your skin—it is _terrible_. But I thought it was _admirable_ for the soul.” “No, not for mine. It just injures it,” said Ursula. “Really!” cried Gudrun. There was a silence in the room. And Ursula and Birkin could feel that Gudrun and Gerald were relieved by their going. “You will go south?” said Gerald, a little ring of uneasiness in his voice. “Yes,” said Birkin, turning away. There was a queer, indefinable hostility between the two men, lately. Birkin was on the whole dim and indifferent, drifting along in a dim, easy flow, unnoticing and patient, since he came abroad, whilst Gerald on the other hand, was intense and gripped into white light, agonistes. The two men revoked one another. Gerald and Gudrun were very kind to the two who were departing, solicitous for their welfare as if they were two children. Gudrun came to Ursula’s bedroom with three pairs of the coloured stockings for which she was notorious, and she threw them on the bed. But these were thick silk stockings, vermilion, cornflower blue, and grey, bought in Paris. The grey ones were knitted, seamless and heavy. Ursula was in raptures. She knew Gudrun must be feeling _very_ loving, to give away such treasures. “I can’t take them from you, Prune,” she cried. “I can’t possibly deprive you of them—the jewels.” “_Aren’t_ they jewels!” cried Gudrun, eyeing her gifts with an envious eye. “_Aren’t_ they real lambs!” “Yes, you _must_ keep them,” said Ursula. “I don’t _want_ them, I’ve got three more pairs. I _want_ you to keep them—I want you to have them. They’re yours, there—” And with trembling, excited hands she put the coveted stockings under Ursula’s pillow. “One gets the greatest joy of all out of really lovely stockings,” said Ursula. “One does,” replied Gudrun; “the greatest joy of all.” And she sat down in the chair. It was evident she had come for a last talk. Ursula, not knowing what she wanted, waited in silence. “Do you _feel_, Ursula,” Gudrun began, rather sceptically, that you are going-away-for-ever, never-to-return, sort of thing?” “Oh, we shall come back,” said Ursula. “It isn’t a question of train-journeys.” “Yes, I know. But spiritually, so to speak, you are going away from us all?” Ursula quivered. “I don’t know a bit what is going to happen,” she said. “I only know we are going somewhere.” Gudrun waited. “And you are glad?” she asked. Ursula meditated for a moment. “I believe I am _very_ glad,” she replied. But Gudrun read the unconscious brightness on her sister’s face, rather than the uncertain tones of her speech. “But don’t you think you’ll _want_ the old connection with the world—father and the rest of us, and all that it means, England and the world of thought—don’t you think you’ll _need_ that, really to make a world?” Ursula was silent, trying to imagine. “I think,” she said at length, involuntarily, “that Rupert is right—one wants a new space to be in, and one falls away from the old.” Gudrun watched her sister with impassive face and steady eyes. “One wants a new space to be in, I quite agree,” she said. “But _I_ think that a new world is a development from this world, and that to isolate oneself with one other person, isn’t to find a new world at all, but only to secure oneself in one’s illusions.” Ursula looked out of the window. In her soul she began to wrestle, and she was frightened. She was always frightened of words, because she knew that mere word-force could always make her believe what she did not believe. “Perhaps,” she said, full of mistrust, of herself and everybody. “But,” she added, “I do think that one can’t have anything new whilst one cares for the old—do you know what I mean?—even fighting the old is belonging to it. I know, one is tempted to stop with the world, just to fight it. But then it isn’t worth it.” Gudrun considered herself. “Yes,” she said. “In a way, one is of the world if one lives in it. But isn’t it really an illusion to think you can get out of it? After all, a cottage in the Abruzzi, or wherever it may be, isn’t a new world. No, the only thing to do with the world, is to see it through.” Ursula looked away. She was so frightened of argument. “But there _can_ be something else, can’t there?” she said. “One can see it through in one’s soul, long enough before it sees itself through in actuality. And then, when one has seen one’s soul, one is something else.” “_Can_ one see it through in one’s soul?” asked Gudrun. “If you mean that you can see to the end of what will happen, I don’t agree. I really can’t agree. And anyhow, you can’t suddenly fly off on to a new planet, because you think you can see to the end of this.” Ursula suddenly straightened herself. “Yes,” she said. “Yes—one knows. One has no more connections here. One has a sort of other self, that belongs to a new planet, not to this. You’ve got to hop off.” Gudrun reflected for a few moments. Then a smile of ridicule, almost of contempt, came over her face. “And what will happen when you find yourself in space?” she cried in derision. “After all, the great ideas of the world are the same there. You above everybody can’t get away from the fact that love, for instance, is the supreme thing, in space as well as on earth.” “No,” said Ursula, “it isn’t. Love is too human and little. I believe in something inhuman, of which love is only a little part. I believe what we must fulfil comes out of the unknown to us, and it is something