then,” he said, angry. “It is enough that I trust myself.” “And that is where you make another mistake,” she replied. “You _don’t_ trust yourself. You don’t fully believe yourself what you are saying. You don’t really want this conjunction, otherwise you wouldn’t talk so much about it, you’d get it.” He was suspended for a moment, arrested. “How?” he said. “By just loving,” she retorted in defiance. He was still a moment, in anger. Then he said: “I tell you, I don’t believe in love like that. I tell you, you want love to administer to your egoism, to subserve you. Love is a process of subservience with you—and with everybody. I hate it.” “No,” she cried, pressing back her head like a cobra, her eyes flashing. “It is a process of pride—I want to be proud—” “Proud and subservient, proud and subservient, I know you,” he retorted dryly. “Proud and subservient, then subservient to the proud—I know you and your love. It is a tick-tack, tick-tack, a dance of opposites.” “Are you sure?” she mocked wickedly, “what my love is?” “Yes, I am,” he retorted. “So cocksure!” she said. “How can anybody ever be right, who is so cocksure? It shows you are wrong.” He was silent in chagrin. They had talked and struggled till they were both wearied out. “Tell me about yourself and your people,” he said. And she told him about the Brangwens, and about her mother, and about Skrebensky, her first love, and about her later experiences. He sat very still, watching her as she talked. And he seemed to listen with reverence. Her face was beautiful and full of baffled light as she told him all the things that had hurt her or perplexed her so deeply. He seemed to warm and comfort his soul at the beautiful light of her nature. “If she _really_ could pledge herself,” he thought to himself, with passionate insistence but hardly any hope. Yet a curious little irresponsible laughter appeared in his heart. “We have all suffered so much,” he mocked, ironically. She looked up at him, and a flash of wild gaiety went over her face, a strange flash of yellow light coming from her eyes. “Haven’t we!” she cried, in a high, reckless cry. “It is almost absurd, isn’t it?” “Quite absurd,” he said. “Suffering bores me, any more.” “So it does me.” He was almost afraid of the mocking recklessness of her splendid face. Here was one who would go to the whole lengths of heaven or hell, whichever she had to go. And he mistrusted her, he was afraid of a woman capable of such abandon, such dangerous thoroughness of destructivity. Yet he chuckled within himself also. She came over to him and put her hand on his shoulder, looking down at him with strange golden-lighted eyes, very tender, but with a curious devilish look lurking underneath. “Say you love me, say ‘my love’ to me,” she pleaded. He looked back into her eyes, and saw. His face flickered with sardonic comprehension. “I love you right enough,” he said, grimly. “But I want it to be something else.” “But why? But why?” she insisted, bending her wonderful luminous face to him. “Why isn’t it enough?” “Because we can go one better,” he said, putting his arms round her. “No, we can’t,” she said, in a strong, voluptuous voice of yielding. “We can only love each other. Say ‘my love’ to me, say it, say it.” She put her arms round his neck. He enfolded her, and kissed her subtly, murmuring in a subtle voice of love, and irony, and submission: “Yes,—my love, yes,—my love. Let love be enough then. I love you then—I love you. I’m bored by the rest.” “Yes,” she murmured, nestling very sweet and close to him. CHAPTER XIV. WATER-PARTY Every year Mr Crich gave a more or less public water-party on the lake. There was a little pleasure-launch on Willey Water and several rowing boats, and guests could take tea either in the marquee that was set up in the grounds of the house, or they could picnic in the shade of the great walnut tree at the boat-house by the lake. This year the staff of the Grammar-School was invited, along with the chief officials of the firm. Gerald and the younger Criches did not care for this party, but it had become customary now, and it pleased the father, as being the only occasion when he could gather some people of the district together in festivity with him. For he loved to give pleasures to his dependents and to those poorer than himself. But his children preferred the company of their own equals in wealth. They hated their inferiors’ humility or gratitude or awkwardness. Nevertheless they were willing to attend at this festival, as they had done almost since they were children, the more so, as they all felt a little guilty now, and unwilling to thwart their father any more, since he was so ill in health. Therefore, quite cheerfully Laura prepared to take her mother’s place as hostess, and Gerald assumed responsibility for the amusements on the water. Birkin had written to Ursula saying he expected to see her at the party, and Gudrun, although she scorned the patronage of the Criches, would nevertheless accompany her mother and father if the weather were fine. The day came blue and full of sunshine, with little wafts of wind. The sisters both wore dresses of white crêpe, and hats of soft grass. But Gudrun had a sash of brilliant black and pink and yellow colour wound broadly round her waist, and she had pink silk stockings, and black and pink and yellow decoration on the brim of her hat, weighing it down a little. She carried also a yellow silk coat over her arm, so that she looked remarkable, like a painting from the Salon. Her appearance was a sore trial to her father, who said angrily: “Don’t you think you might as well get yourself up for a Christmas cracker, an’ ha’ done with it?” But Gudrun looked handsome and brilliant, and she wore her clothes in pure defiance. When people stared at her, and giggled after her, she made a point of saying loudly, to Ursula: “_Regarde, regarde ces gens-là! Ne sont-ils pas des hiboux incroyables?_” And with the words of French in her mouth, she would look over her shoulder at the giggling party. “No, really, it’s impossible!” Ursula would reply distinctly. And so the two girls took it out of their universal enemy. But their father became more and more enraged. Ursula was all snowy white, save that her hat was pink, and entirely without trimming, and her shoes were dark red, and she carried an orange-coloured coat. And in this guise they were walking all the way to Shortlands, their father and mother going in front. They were laughing at their mother, who, dressed in a summer material of black and purple stripes, and wearing a hat of purple straw, was setting forth with much more of the shyness and trepidation of a young girl than her daughters ever felt, walking demurely beside her husband, who, as usual, looked rather crumpled in his best suit, as if he were the father of a young family and had been holding the baby whilst his wife got dressed. “Look at the young couple in front,” said Gudrun calmly. Ursula looked at her mother and father, and was suddenly seized with uncontrollable laughter. The two girls stood in the road and laughed till the tears ran down their faces, as they caught sight again of the shy, unworldly couple of their parents going on ahead. “We are roaring at you, mother,” called Ursula, helplessly following after her parents. Mrs Brangwen turned round with a slightly puzzled, exasperated look. “Oh indeed!” she said. “What is there so very funny about _me_, I should like to know?” She could not understand that there could be anything amiss with her appearance. She had a perfect calm sufficiency, an easy indifference to any criticism whatsoever, as if she were beyond it. Her clothes were always rather odd, and as a rule slip-shod, yet she wore them with a perfect ease and satisfaction. Whatever she had on, so long as she was barely tidy, she was right, beyond remark; such an aristocrat she was by instinct. “You look so stately, like a country Baroness,” said Ursula, laughing with a little tenderness at her mother’s naive puzzled air. “_Just_ like a country Baroness!” chimed in Gudrun. Now the mother’s natural hauteur became self-conscious, and the girls shrieked again. “Go home, you pair of idiots, great giggling idiots!” cried the father inflamed with irritation. “Mm-m-er!” booed Ursula, pulling a face at his crossness. The yellow lights danced in his eyes, he leaned forward in real rage. “Don’t be so silly as to take any notice of the great gabies,” said Mrs Brangwen,