turning on her way. “I’ll see if I’m going to be followed by a pair of giggling yelling jackanapes—” he cried vengefully. The girls stood still, laughing helplessly at his fury, upon the path beside the hedge. “Why you’re as silly as they are, to take any notice,” said Mrs Brangwen also becoming angry now he was really enraged. “There are some people coming, father,” cried Ursula, with mocking warning. He glanced round quickly, and went on to join his wife, walking stiff with rage. And the girls followed, weak with laughter. When the people had passed by, Brangwen cried in a loud, stupid voice: “I’m going back home if there’s any more of this. I’m damned if I’m going to be made a fool of in this fashion, in the public road.” He was really out of temper. At the sound of his blind, vindictive voice, the laughter suddenly left the girls, and their hearts contracted with contempt. They hated his words “in the public road.” What did they care for the public road? But Gudrun was conciliatory. “But we weren’t laughing to _hurt_ you,” she cried, with an uncouth gentleness which made her parents uncomfortable. “We were laughing because we’re fond of you.” “We’ll walk on in front, if they are _so_ touchy,” said Ursula, angry. And in this wise they arrived at Willey Water. The lake was blue and fair, the meadows sloped down in sunshine on one side, the thick dark woods dropped steeply on the other. The little pleasure-launch was fussing out from the shore, twanging its music, crowded with people, flapping its paddles. Near the boat-house was a throng of gaily-dressed persons, small in the distance. And on the high-road, some of the common people were standing along the hedge, looking at the festivity beyond, enviously, like souls not admitted to paradise. “My eye!” said Gudrun, _sotto voce_, looking at the motley of guests, “there’s a pretty crowd if you like! Imagine yourself in the midst of that, my dear.” Gudrun’s apprehensive horror of people in the mass unnerved Ursula. “It looks rather awful,” she said anxiously. “And imagine what they’ll be like—_imagine!_” said Gudrun, still in that unnerving, subdued voice. Yet she advanced determinedly. “I suppose we can get away from them,” said Ursula anxiously. “We’re in a pretty fix if we can’t,” said Gudrun. Her extreme ironic loathing and apprehension was very trying to Ursula. “We needn’t stay,” she said. “I certainly shan’t stay five minutes among that little lot,” said Gudrun. They advanced nearer, till they saw policemen at the gates. “Policemen to keep you in, too!” said Gudrun. “My word, this is a beautiful affair.” “We’d better look after father and mother,” said Ursula anxiously. “Mother’s _perfectly_ capable of getting through this little celebration,” said Gudrun with some contempt. But Ursula knew that her father felt uncouth and angry and unhappy, so she was far from her ease. They waited outside the gate till their parents came up. The tall, thin man in his crumpled clothes was unnerved and irritable as a boy, finding himself on the brink of this social function. He did not feel a gentleman, he did not feel anything except pure exasperation. Ursula took her place at his side, they gave their tickets to the policeman, and passed in on to the grass, four abreast; the tall, hot, ruddy-dark man with his narrow boyish brow drawn with irritation, the fresh-faced, easy woman, perfectly collected though her hair was slipping on one side, then Gudrun, her eyes round and dark and staring, her full soft face impassive, almost sulky, so that she seemed to be backing away in antagonism even whilst she was advancing; and then Ursula, with the odd, brilliant, dazzled look on her face, that always came when she was in some false situation. Birkin was the good angel. He came smiling to them with his affected social grace, that somehow was never _quite_ right. But he took off his hat and smiled at them with a real smile in his eyes, so that Brangwen cried out heartily in relief: “How do you do? You’re better, are you?” “Yes, I’m better. How do you do, Mrs Brangwen? I know Gudrun and Ursula very well.” His eyes smiled full of natural warmth. He had a soft, flattering manner with women, particularly with women who were not young. “Yes,” said Mrs Brangwen, cool but yet gratified. “I have heard them speak of you often enough.” He laughed. Gudrun looked aside, feeling she was being belittled. People were standing about in groups, some women were sitting in the shade of the walnut tree, with cups of tea in their hands, a waiter in evening dress was hurrying round, some girls were simpering with parasols, some young men, who had just come in from rowing, were sitting cross-legged on the grass, coatless, their shirt-sleeves rolled up in manly fashion, their hands resting on their white flannel trousers, their gaudy ties floating about, as they laughed and tried to be witty with the young damsels. “Why,” thought Gudrun churlishly, “don’t they have the manners to put their coats on, and not to assume such intimacy in their appearance.” She abhorred the ordinary young man, with his hair plastered back, and his easy-going chumminess. Hermione Roddice came up, in a handsome gown of white lace, trailing an enormous silk shawl blotched with great embroidered flowers, and balancing an enormous plain hat on her head. She looked striking, astonishing, almost macabre, so tall, with the fringe of her great cream-coloured vividly-blotched shawl trailing on the ground after her, her thick hair coming low over her eyes, her face strange and long and pale, and the blotches of brilliant colour drawn round her. “Doesn’t she look _weird!_” Gudrun heard some girls titter behind her. And she could have killed them. “How do you do!” sang Hermione, coming up very kindly, and glancing slowly over Gudrun’s father and mother. It was a trying moment, exasperating for Gudrun. Hermione was really so strongly entrenched in her class superiority, she could come up and know people out of simple curiosity, as if they were creatures on exhibition. Gudrun would do the same herself. But she resented being in the position when somebody might do it to her. Hermione, very remarkable, and distinguishing the Brangwens very much, led them along to where Laura Crich stood receiving the guests. “This is Mrs Brangwen,” sang Hermione, and Laura, who wore a stiff embroidered linen dress, shook hands and said she was glad to see her. Then Gerald came up, dressed in white, with a black and brown blazer, and looking handsome. He too was introduced to the Brangwen parents, and immediately he spoke to Mrs Brangwen as if she were a lady, and to Brangwen as if he were _not_ a gentleman. Gerald was so obvious in his demeanour. He had to shake hands with his left hand, because he had hurt his right, and carried it, bandaged up, in the pocket of his jacket. Gudrun was _very_ thankful that none of her party asked him what was the matter with the hand. The steam launch was fussing in, all its music jingling, people calling excitedly from on board. Gerald went to see to the debarkation, Birkin was getting tea for Mrs Brangwen, Brangwen had joined a Grammar-School group, Hermione was sitting down by their mother, the girls went to the landing-stage to watch the launch come in. She hooted and tooted gaily, then her paddles were silent, the ropes were thrown ashore, she drifted in with a little bump. Immediately the passengers crowded excitedly to come ashore. “Wait a minute, wait a minute,” shouted Gerald in sharp command. They must wait till the boat was tight on the ropes, till the small gangway was put out. Then they streamed ashore, clamouring as if they had come from America. “Oh it’s _so_ nice!” the young girls were crying. “It’s quite lovely.” The waiters from on board ran out to the boat-house with baskets, the captain lounged on the little bridge. Seeing all safe, Gerald came to Gudrun and Ursula. “You wouldn’t care to go on board for the next trip, and have tea there?” he asked. “No thanks,” said Gudrun coldly. “You don’t care for the water?” “For the water? Yes, I like it very much.” He looked at her, his eyes searching. “You don’t care for going on a launch, then?” She was slow in answering, and then she spoke slowly. “No,” she said. “I can’t say that I do.” Her colour was high, she seemed angry about something. “_Un peu trop de monde_,” said Ursula, explaining. “Eh? _Trop de monde!_” He laughed shortly. “Yes there’s a fair number of ’em.” Gudrun turned on him brilliantly. “Have you ever been from Westminster Bridge to Richmond on one of the Thames steamers?” she cried. “No,” he said, “I can’t say I have.” “Well, it’s one of the most _vile_