to herself. _He_ was frightened of the place too. “Hello! Here we are,” she called downstairs. And they heard him quickly running up. “This is a ghostly situation,” he said. “These houses don’t have ghosts—they’ve never had any personality, and only a place with personality can have a ghost,” said Gudrun. “I suppose so. Are you both weeping over the past?” “We are,” said Gudrun, grimly. Ursula laughed. “Not weeping that it’s gone, but weeping that it ever _was_,” she said. “Oh,” he replied, relieved. He sat down for a moment. There was something in his presence, Ursula thought, lambent and alive. It made even the impertinent structure of this null house disappear. “Gudrun says she could not bear to be married and put into a house,” said Ursula meaningful—they knew this referred to Gerald. He was silent for some moments. “Well,” he said, “if you know beforehand you couldn’t stand it, you’re safe.” “Quite!” said Gudrun. “Why _does_ every woman think her aim in life is to have a hubby and a little grey home in the west? Why is this the goal of life? Why should it be?” said Ursula. “_Il faut avoir le respect de ses bêtises_,” said Birkin. “But you needn’t have the respect for the _bêtise_ before you’ve committed it,” laughed Ursula. “Ah then, _des bêtises du papa?_” “_Et de la maman_,” added Gudrun satirically. “_Et des voisins_,” said Ursula. They all laughed, and rose. It was getting dark. They carried the things to the car. Gudrun locked the door of the empty house. Birkin had lighted the lamps of the automobile. It all seemed very happy, as if they were setting out. “Do you mind stopping at Coulsons. I have to leave the key there,” said Gudrun. “Right,” said Birkin, and they moved off. They stopped in the main street. The shops were just lighted, the last miners were passing home along the causeways, half-visible shadows in their grey pit-dirt, moving through the blue air. But their feet rang harshly in manifold sound, along the pavement. How pleased Gudrun was to come out of the shop, and enter the car, and be borne swiftly away into the downhill of palpable dusk, with Ursula and Birkin! What an adventure life seemed at this moment! How deeply, how suddenly she envied Ursula! Life for her was so quick, and an open door—so reckless as if not only this world, but the world that was gone and the world to come were nothing to her. Ah, if she could be _just like that_, it would be perfect. For always, except in her moments of excitement, she felt a want within herself. She was unsure. She had felt that now, at last, in Gerald’s strong and violent love, she was living fully and finally. But when she compared herself with Ursula, already her soul was jealous, unsatisfied. She was not satisfied—she was never to be satisfied. What was she short of now? It was marriage—it was the wonderful stability of marriage. She did want it, let her say what she might. She had been lying. The old idea of marriage was right even now—marriage and the home. Yet her mouth gave a little grimace at the words. She thought of Gerald and Shortlands—marriage and the home! Ah well, let it rest! He meant a great deal to her—but—! Perhaps it was not in her to marry. She was one of life’s outcasts, one of the drifting lives that have no root. No, no it could not be so. She suddenly conjured up a rosy room, with herself in a beautiful gown, and a handsome man in evening dress who held her in his arms in the firelight, and kissed her. This picture she entitled “Home.” It would have done for the Royal Academy. “Come with us to tea—_do_,” said Ursula, as they ran nearer to the cottage of Willey Green. “Thanks awfully—but I _must_ go in—” said Gudrun. She wanted very much to go on with Ursula and Birkin. That seemed like life indeed to her. Yet a certain perversity would not let her. “Do come—yes, it would be so nice,” pleaded Ursula. “I’m awfully sorry—I should love to—but I can’t—really—” She descended from the car in trembling haste. “Can’t you really!” came Ursula’s regretful voice. “No, really I can’t,” responded Gudrun’s pathetic, chagrined words out of the dusk. “All right, are you?” called Birkin. “Quite!” said Gudrun. “Good-night!” “Good-night,” they called. “Come whenever you like, we shall be glad,” called Birkin. “Thank you very much,” called Gudrun, in the strange, twanging voice of lonely chagrin that was very puzzling to him. She turned away to her cottage gate, and they drove on. But immediately she stood to watch them, as the car ran vague into the distance. And as she went up the path to her strange house, her heart was full of incomprehensible bitterness. In her parlour was a long-case clock, and inserted into its dial was a ruddy, round, slant-eyed, joyous-painted face, that wagged over with the most ridiculous ogle when the clock ticked, and back again with the same absurd glad-eye at the next tick. All the time the absurd smooth, brown-ruddy face gave her an obtrusive “glad-eye.” She stood for minutes, watching it, till a sort of maddened disgust overcame her, and she laughed at herself hollowly. And still it rocked, and gave her the glad-eye from one side, then from the other, from one side, then from the other. Ah, how unhappy she was! In the midst of her most active happiness, ah, how unhappy she was! She glanced at the table. Gooseberry jam, and the same home-made cake with too much soda in it! Still, gooseberry jam was good, and one so rarely got it. All the evening she wanted to go to the Mill. But she coldly refused to allow herself. She went the next afternoon instead. She was happy to find Ursula alone. It was a lovely, intimate secluded atmosphere. They talked endlessly and delightedly. “Aren’t you _fearfully_ happy here?” said Gudrun to her sister glancing at her own bright eyes in the mirror. She always envied, almost with resentment, the strange positive fullness that subsisted in the atmosphere around Ursula and Birkin. How really beautifully this room is done,” she said aloud. “This hard plaited matting—what a lovely colour it is, the colour of cool light!” And it seemed to her perfect. “Ursula,” she said at length, in a voice of question and detachment, “did you know that Gerald Crich had suggested our going away all together at Christmas?” “Yes, he’s spoken to Rupert.” A deep flush dyed Gudrun’s cheek. She was silent a moment, as if taken aback, and not knowing what to say. “But don’t you think,” she said at last, “it is _amazingly cool!_” Ursula laughed. “I like him for it,” she said. Gudrun was silent. It was evident that, whilst she was almost mortified by Gerald’s taking the liberty of making such a suggestion to Birkin, yet the idea itself attracted her strongly. “There’s a rather lovely simplicity about Gerald, I think,” said Ursula, “so defiant, somehow! Oh, I think he’s _very_ lovable.” Gudrun did not reply for some moments. She had still to get over the feeling of insult at the liberty taken with her freedom. “What did Rupert say—do you know?” she asked. “He said it would be most awfully jolly,” said Ursula. Again Gudrun looked down, and was silent. “Don’t you think it would?” said Ursula, tentatively. She was never quite sure how many defences Gudrun was having round herself. Gudrun raised her face with difficulty and held it averted. “I think it _might_ be awfully jolly, as you say,” she replied. “But don’t you think it was an unpardonable liberty to take—to talk of such things to Rupert—who after all—you see what I mean, Ursula—they might have been two men arranging an outing with some little _type_ they’d picked up. Oh, I think it’s unforgivable, quite!” She used the French word “_type_.” Her eyes flashed, her soft face was flushed and sullen. Ursula looked on, rather frightened, frightened most of all because she thought Gudrun seemed rather common, really like a little _type_. But she had not the courage quite to think this—not right out. “Oh no,” she cried, stammering. “Oh no—not at all like that—oh no! No, I think it’s rather beautiful, the friendship between Rupert and Gerald. They just are simple—they say anything to each other, like brothers.” Gudrun flushed deeper. She could not _bear_ it that Gerald gave her away—even to Birkin. “But do you think even brothers have any right to exchange confidences of that sort?” she asked, with deep anger. “Oh yes,” said Ursula. “There’s never anything said that isn’t perfectly straightforward. No, the thing that’s amazed me most in Gerald—how perfectly simple and direct he can be! And you know, it takes rather a big man. Most of them _must_ be indirect, they are