dancing a grotesque step-dance in front of her, his limbs and body shaking loose, his face flickering palely, a constant thing, whilst his feet beat a rapid mocking tattoo, and his body seemed to hang all loose and quaking in between, like a shadow. “I think we’ve all gone mad,” she said, laughing rather frightened. “Pity we aren’t madder,” he answered, as he kept up the incessant shaking dance. Then suddenly he leaned up to her and kissed her fingers lightly, putting his face to hers and looking into her eyes with a pale grin. She stepped back, affronted. “Offended—?” he asked ironically, suddenly going quite still and reserved again. “I thought you liked the light fantastic.” “Not like that,” she said, confused and bewildered, almost affronted. Yet somewhere inside her she was fascinated by the sight of his loose, vibrating body, perfectly abandoned to its own dropping and swinging, and by the pallid, sardonic-smiling face above. Yet automatically she stiffened herself away, and disapproved. It seemed almost an obscenity, in a man who talked as a rule so very seriously. “Why not like that?” he mocked. And immediately he dropped again into the incredibly rapid, slack-waggling dance, watching her malevolently. And moving in the rapid, stationary dance, he came a little nearer, and reached forward with an incredibly mocking, satiric gleam on his face, and would have kissed her again, had she not started back. “No, don’t!” she cried, really afraid. “Cordelia after all,” he said satirically. She was stung, as if this were an insult. She knew he intended it as such, and it bewildered her. “And you,” she cried in retort, “why do you always take your soul in your mouth, so frightfully full?” “So that I can spit it out the more readily,” he said, pleased by his own retort. Gerald Crich, his face narrowing to an intent gleam, followed up the hill with quick strides, straight after Gudrun. The cattle stood with their noses together on the brow of a slope, watching the scene below, the men in white hovering about the white forms of the women, watching above all Gudrun, who was advancing slowly towards them. She stood a moment, glancing back at Gerald, and then at the cattle. Then in a sudden motion, she lifted her arms and rushed sheer upon the long-horned bullocks, in shuddering irregular runs, pausing for a second and looking at them, then lifting her hands and running forward with a flash, till they ceased pawing the ground, and gave way, snorting with terror, lifting their heads from the ground and flinging themselves away, galloping off into the evening, becoming tiny in the distance, and still not stopping. Gudrun remained staring after them, with a mask-like defiant face. “Why do you want to drive them mad?” asked Gerald, coming up with her. She took no notice of him, only averted her face from him. “It’s not safe, you know,” he persisted. “They’re nasty, when they do turn.” “Turn where? Turn away?” she mocked loudly. “No,” he said, “turn against you.” “Turn against _me?_” she mocked. He could make nothing of this. “Anyway, they gored one of the farmer’s cows to death, the other day,” he said. “What do I care?” she said. “_I_ cared though,” he replied, “seeing that they’re my cattle.” “How are they yours! You haven’t swallowed them. Give me one of them now,” she said, holding out her hand. “You know where they are,” he said, pointing over the hill. “You can have one if you’d like it sent to you later on.” She looked at him inscrutably. “You think I’m afraid of you and your cattle, don’t you?” she asked. His eyes narrowed dangerously. There was a faint domineering smile on his face. “Why should I think that?” he said. She was watching him all the time with her dark, dilated, inchoate eyes. She leaned forward and swung round her arm, catching him a light blow on the face with the back of her hand. “That’s why,” she said, mocking. And she felt in her soul an unconquerable desire for deep violence against him. She shut off the fear and dismay that filled her conscious mind. She wanted to do as she did, she was not going to be afraid. He recoiled from the slight blow on his face. He became deadly pale, and a dangerous flame darkened his eyes. For some seconds he could not speak, his lungs were so suffused with blood, his heart stretched almost to bursting with a great gush of ungovernable emotion. It was as if some reservoir of black emotion had burst within him, and swamped him. “You have struck the first blow,” he said at last, forcing the words from his lungs, in a voice so soft and low, it sounded like a dream within her, not spoken in the outer air. “And I shall strike the last,” she retorted involuntarily, with confident assurance. He was silent, he did not contradict her. She stood negligently, staring away from him, into the distance. On the edge of her consciousness the question was asking itself, automatically: “Why _are_ you behaving in this _impossible_ and ridiculous fashion.” But she was sullen, she half shoved the question out of herself. She could not get it clean away, so she felt self-conscious. Gerald, very pale, was watching her closely. His eyes were lit up with intent lights, absorbed and gleaming. She turned suddenly on him. “It’s you who make me behave like this, you know,” she said, almost suggestive. “I? How?” he said. But she turned away, and set off towards the lake. Below, on the water, lanterns were coming alight, faint ghosts of warm flame floating in the pallor of the first twilight. The earth was spread with darkness, like lacquer, overhead was a pale sky, all primrose, and the lake was pale as milk in one part. Away at the landing stage, tiniest points of coloured rays were stringing themselves in the dusk. The launch was being illuminated. All round, shadow was gathering from the trees. Gerald, white like a presence in his summer clothes, was following down the open grassy slope. Gudrun waited for him to come up. Then she softly put out her hand and touched him, saying softly: “Don’t be angry with me.” A flame flew over him, and he was unconscious. Yet he stammered: “I’m not angry with you. I’m in love with you.” His mind was gone, he grasped for sufficient mechanical control, to save himself. She laughed a silvery little mockery, yet intolerably caressive. “That’s one way of putting it,” she said. The terrible swooning burden on his mind, the awful swooning, the loss of all his control, was too much for him. He grasped her arm in his one hand, as if his hand were iron. “It’s all right, then, is it?” he said, holding her arrested. She looked at the face with the fixed eyes, set before her, and her blood ran cold. “Yes, it’s all right,” she said softly, as if drugged, her voice crooning and witch-like. He walked on beside her, a striding, mindless body. But he recovered a little as he went. He suffered badly. He had killed his brother when a boy, and was set apart, like Cain. They found Birkin and Ursula sitting together by the boats, talking and laughing. Birkin had been teasing Ursula. “Do you smell this little marsh?” he said, sniffing the air. He was very sensitive to scents, and quick in understanding them. “It’s rather nice,” she said. “No,” he replied, “alarming.” “Why alarming?” she laughed. “It seethes and seethes, a river of darkness,” he said, “putting forth lilies and snakes, and the _ignis fatuus_, and rolling all the time onward. That’s what we never take into count—that it rolls onwards.” “What does?” “The other river, the black river. We always consider the silver river of life, rolling on and quickening all the world to a brightness, on and on to heaven, flowing into a bright eternal sea, a heaven of angels thronging. But the other is our real reality—” “But what other? I don’t see any other,” said Ursula. “It is your reality, nevertheless,” he said; “that dark river of dissolution. You see it rolls in us just as the other rolls—the black river of corruption. And our flowers are of this—our sea-born Aphrodite, all our white phosphorescent flowers of sensuous perfection, all our reality, nowadays.” “You mean that Aphrodite is really deathly?” asked Ursula. “I mean she is the flowering mystery of the death-process, yes,” he replied. “When the stream of synthetic creation lapses, we find ourselves part of the inverse process, the blood of destructive creation. Aphrodite is born in the first spasm of universal dissolution—then the snakes and swans and lotus—marsh-flowers—and Gudrun and Gerald—born in the process of destructive creation.” “And you and me—?” she asked. “Probably,” he replied. “In part, certainly. Whether we are that, _in toto_, I don’t