aim or meaning, a darkened confusion, like a black and white kaleidoscope tossed at random. The hollow night was rocking and crashing with noise, and from the sluice came sharp, regular flashes of sound. Flakes of light appeared here and there, glittering tormented among the shadows, far off, in strange places; among the dripping shadow of the willow on the island. Birkin stood and listened and was satisfied. Ursula was dazed, her mind was all gone. She felt she had fallen to the ground and was spilled out, like water on the earth. Motionless and spent she remained in the gloom. Though even now she was aware, unseeing, that in the darkness was a little tumult of ebbing flakes of light, a cluster dancing secretly in a round, twining and coming steadily together. They were gathering a heart again, they were coming once more into being. Gradually the fragments caught together re-united, heaving, rocking, dancing, falling back as in panic, but working their way home again persistently, making semblance of fleeing away when they had advanced, but always flickering nearer, a little closer to the mark, the cluster growing mysteriously larger and brighter, as gleam after gleam fell in with the whole, until a ragged rose, a distorted, frayed moon was shaking upon the waters again, re-asserted, renewed, trying to recover from its convulsion, to get over the disfigurement and the agitation, to be whole and composed, at peace. Birkin lingered vaguely by the water. Ursula was afraid that he would stone the moon again. She slipped from her seat and went down to him, saying: “You won’t throw stones at it any more, will you?” “How long have you been there?” “All the time. You won’t throw any more stones, will you?” “I wanted to see if I could make it be quite gone off the pond,” he said. “Yes, it was horrible, really. Why should you hate the moon? It hasn’t done you any harm, has it?” “Was it hate?” he said. And they were silent for a few minutes. “When did you come back?” she said. “Today.” “Why did you never write?” “I could find nothing to say.” “Why was there nothing to say?” “I don’t know. Why are there no daffodils now?” “No.” Again there was a space of silence. Ursula looked at the moon. It had gathered itself together, and was quivering slightly. “Was it good for you, to be alone?” she asked. “Perhaps. Not that I know much. But I got over a good deal. Did you do anything important?” “No. I looked at England, and thought I’d done with it.” “Why England?” he asked in surprise. “I don’t know, it came like that.” “It isn’t a question of nations,” he said. “France is far worse.” “Yes, I know. I felt I’d done with it all.” They went and sat down on the roots of the trees, in the shadow. And being silent, he remembered the beauty of her eyes, which were sometimes filled with light, like spring, suffused with wonderful promise. So he said to her, slowly, with difficulty: “There is a golden light in you, which I wish you would give me.” It was as if he had been thinking of this for some time. She was startled, she seemed to leap clear of him. Yet also she was pleased. “What kind of a light,” she asked. But he was shy, and did not say any more. So the moment passed for this time. And gradually a feeling of sorrow came over her. “My life is unfulfilled,” she said. “Yes,” he answered briefly, not wanting to hear this. “And I feel as if nobody could ever really love me,” she said. But he did not answer. “You think, don’t you,” she said slowly, “that I only want physical things? It isn’t true. I want you to serve my spirit.” “I know you do. I know you don’t want physical things by themselves. But, I want you to give me—to give your spirit to me—that golden light which is you—which you don’t know—give it me—” After a moment’s silence she replied: “But how can I, you don’t love me! You only want your own ends. You don’t want to serve _me_, and yet you want me to serve you. It is so one-sided!” It was a great effort to him to maintain this conversation, and to press for the thing he wanted from her, the surrender of her spirit. “It is different,” he said. “The two kinds of service are so different. I serve you in another way—not through _yourself_—somewhere else. But I want us to be together without bothering about ourselves—to be really together because we _are_ together, as if it were a phenomenon, not a not a thing we have to maintain by our own effort.” “No,” she said, pondering. “You are just egocentric. You never have any enthusiasm, you never come out with any spark towards me. You want yourself, really, and your own affairs. And you want me just to be there, to serve you.” But this only made him shut off from her. “Ah well,” he said, “words make no matter, any way. The thing _is_ between us, or it isn’t.” “You don’t even love me,” she cried. “I do,” he said angrily. “But I want—” His mind saw again the lovely golden light of spring transfused through her eyes, as through some wonderful window. And he wanted her to be with him there, in this world of proud indifference. But what was the good of telling her he wanted this company in proud indifference. What was the good of talking, any way? It must happen beyond the sound of words. It was merely ruinous to try to work her by conviction. This was a paradisal bird that could never be netted, it must fly by itself to the heart. “I always think I am going to be loved—and then I am let down. You _don’t_ love me, you know. You don’t want to serve me. You only want yourself.” A shiver of rage went over his veins, at this repeated: “You don’t want to serve me.” All the paradisal disappeared from him. “No,” he said, irritated, “I don’t want to serve you, because there is nothing there to serve. What you want me to serve, is nothing, mere nothing. It isn’t even you, it is your mere female quality. And I wouldn’t give a straw for your female ego—it’s a rag doll.” “Ha!” she laughed in mockery. “That’s all you think of me, is it? And then you have the impudence to say you love me.” She rose in anger, to go home. You want the paradisal unknowing,” she said, turning round on him as he still sat half-visible in the shadow. “I know what that means, thank you. You want me to be your thing, never to criticise you or to have anything to say for myself. You want me to be a mere _thing_ for you! No thank you! _If_ you want that, there are plenty of women who will give it to you. There are plenty of women who will lie down for you to walk over them—_go_ to them then, if that’s what you want—go to them.” “No,” he said, outspoken with anger. “I want you to drop your assertive _will_, your frightened apprehensive self-insistence, that is what I want. I want you to trust yourself so implicitly, that you can let yourself go.” “Let myself go!” she re-echoed in mockery. “I can let myself go, easily enough. It is you who can’t let yourself go, it is you who hang on to yourself as if it were your only treasure. _You—you_ are the Sunday school teacher—_You_—you preacher.” The amount of truth that was in this made him stiff and unheeding of her. “I don’t mean let yourself go in the Dionysic ecstatic way,” he said. “I know you can do that. But I hate ecstasy, Dionysic or any other. It’s like going round in a squirrel cage. I want you not to care about yourself, just to be there and not to care about yourself, not to insist—be glad and sure and indifferent.” “Who insists?” she mocked. “Who is it that keeps on insisting? It isn’t _me!_” There was a weary, mocking bitterness in her voice. He was silent for some time. “I know,” he said. “While ever either of us insists to the other, we are all wrong. But there we are, the accord doesn’t come.” They sat in stillness under the shadow of the trees by the bank. The night was white around them, they were in the darkness, barely conscious. Gradually, the stillness and peace came over them. She put her hand tentatively on his. Their hands clasped softly and silently, in peace. “Do you really love me?” she said. He laughed. “I call that your war-cry,” he replied, amused. “Why!” she cried, amused and really wondering. “Your insistence—Your