curious notions you have of love,” jeered Ursula. “And woman is the same as horses: two wills act in opposition inside her. With one will, she wants to subject herself utterly. With the other she wants to bolt, and pitch her rider to perdition.” “Then I’m a bolter,” said Ursula, with a burst of laughter. “It’s a dangerous thing to domesticate even horses, let alone women,” said Birkin. “The dominant principle has some rare antagonists.” “Good thing too,” said Ursula. “Quite,” said Gerald, with a faint smile. “There’s more fun.” Hermione could bear no more. She rose, saying in her easy sing-song: “Isn’t the evening beautiful! I get filled sometimes with such a great sense of beauty, that I feel I can hardly bear it.” Ursula, to whom she had appealed, rose with her, moved to the last impersonal depths. And Birkin seemed to her almost a monster of hateful arrogance. She went with Hermione along the bank of the pond, talking of beautiful, soothing things, picking the gentle cowslips. “Wouldn’t you like a dress,” said Ursula to Hermione, “of this yellow spotted with orange—a cotton dress?” “Yes,” said Hermione, stopping and looking at the flower, letting the thought come home to her and soothe her. “Wouldn’t it be pretty? I should _love_ it.” And she turned smiling to Ursula, in a feeling of real affection. But Gerald remained with Birkin, wanting to probe him to the bottom, to know what he meant by the dual will in horses. A flicker of excitement danced on Gerald’s face. Hermione and Ursula strayed on together, united in a sudden bond of deep affection and closeness. “I really do not want to be forced into all this criticism and analysis of life. I really _do_ want to see things in their entirety, with their beauty left to them, and their wholeness, their natural holiness. Don’t you feel it, don’t you feel you _can’t_ be tortured into any more knowledge?” said Hermione, stopping in front of Ursula, and turning to her with clenched fists thrust downwards. “Yes,” said Ursula. “I do. I am sick of all this poking and prying.” “I’m so glad you are. Sometimes,” said Hermione, again stopping arrested in her progress and turning to Ursula, “sometimes I wonder if I _ought_ to submit to all this realisation, if I am not being weak in rejecting it. But I feel I _can’t_—I _can’t_. It seems to destroy _everything_. All the beauty and the—and the true holiness is destroyed—and I feel I can’t live without them.” “And it would be simply wrong to live without them,” cried Ursula. “No, it is so _irreverent_ to think that everything must be realised in the head. Really, something must be left to the Lord, there always is and always will be.” “Yes,” said Hermione, reassured like a child, “it should, shouldn’t it? And Rupert—” she lifted her face to the sky, in a muse—“he _can_ only tear things to pieces. He really _is_ like a boy who must pull everything to pieces to see how it is made. And I can’t think it is right—it does seem so irreverent, as you say.” “Like tearing open a bud to see what the flower will be like,” said Ursula. “Yes. And that kills everything, doesn’t it? It doesn’t allow any possibility of flowering.” “Of course not,” said Ursula. “It is purely destructive.” “It is, isn’t it!” Hermione looked long and slow at Ursula, seeming to accept confirmation from her. Then the two women were silent. As soon as they were in accord, they began mutually to mistrust each other. In spite of herself, Ursula felt herself recoiling from Hermione. It was all she could do to restrain her revulsion. They returned to the men, like two conspirators who have withdrawn to come to an agreement. Birkin looked up at them. Ursula hated him for his cold watchfulness. But he said nothing. “Shall we be going?” said Hermione. “Rupert, you are coming to Shortlands to dinner? Will you come at once, will you come now, with us?” “I’m not dressed,” replied Birkin. “And you know Gerald stickles for convention.” “I don’t stickle for it,” said Gerald. “But if you’d got as sick as I have of rowdy go-as-you-please in the house, you’d prefer it if people were peaceful and conventional, at least at meals.” “All right,” said Birkin. “But can’t we wait for you while you dress?” persisted Hermione. “If you like.” He rose to go indoors. Ursula said she would take her leave. “Only,” she said, turning to Gerald, “I must say that, however man is lord of the beast and the fowl, I still don’t think he has any right to violate the feelings of the inferior creation. I still think it would have been much more sensible and nice of you if you’d trotted back up the road while the train went by, and been considerate.” “I see,” said Gerald, smiling, but somewhat annoyed. “I must remember another time.” “They all think I’m an interfering female,” thought Ursula to herself, as she went away. But she was in arms against them. She ran home plunged in thought. She had been very much moved by Hermione, she had really come into contact with her, so that there was a sort of league between the two women. And yet she could not bear her. But she put the thought away. “She’s really good,” she said to herself. “She really wants what is right.” And she tried to feel at one with Hermione, and to shut off from Birkin. She was strictly hostile to him. But she was held to him by some bond, some deep principle. This at once irritated her and saved her. Only now and again, violent little shudders would come over her, out of her subconsciousness, and she knew it was the fact that she had stated her challenge to Birkin, and he had, consciously or unconsciously, accepted. It was a fight to the death between them—or to new life: though in what the conflict lay, no one could say. CHAPTER XIII. MINO The days went by, and she received no sign. Was he going to ignore her, was he going to take no further notice of her secret? A dreary weight of anxiety and acrid bitterness settled on her. And yet Ursula knew she was only deceiving herself, and that he _would_ proceed. She said no word to anybody. Then, sure enough, there came a note from him, asking if she would come to tea with Gudrun, to his rooms in town. “Why does he ask Gudrun as well?” she asked herself at once. “Does he want to protect himself, or does he think I would not go alone?” She was tormented by the thought that he wanted to protect himself. But at the end of all, she only said to herself: “I don’t want Gudrun to be there, because I want him to say something more to me. So I shan’t tell Gudrun anything about it, and I shall go alone. Then I shall know.” She found herself sitting on the tram-car, mounting up the hill going out of the town, to the place where he had his lodging. She seemed to have passed into a kind of dream world, absolved from the conditions of actuality. She watched the sordid streets of the town go by beneath her, as if she were a spirit disconnected from the material universe. What had it all to do with her? She was palpitating and formless within the flux of the ghost life. She could not consider any more, what anybody would say of her or think about her. People had passed out of her range, she was absolved. She had fallen strange and dim, out of the sheath of the material life, as a berry falls from the only world it has ever known, down out of the sheath on to the real unknown. Birkin was standing in the middle of the room, when she was shown in by the landlady. He too was moved outside himself. She saw him agitated and shaken, a frail, unsubstantial body silent like the node of some violent force, that came out from him and shook her almost into a swoon. “You are alone?” he said. “Yes—Gudrun could not come.” He instantly guessed why. And they were both seated in silence, in the terrible tension of the room. She was aware that it was a pleasant room, full of light and very restful in its form—aware also of a fuchsia tree, with dangling scarlet and purple flowers. “How nice the fuchsias are!” she said, to break the silence. “Aren’t they! Did you think I had forgotten what I said?” A swoon went over Ursula’s mind. “I don’t want you to remember it—if you don’t want to,” she struggled to say, through the dark mist that covered her. There was silence for some moments. “No,” he said. “It isn’t that. Only—if