sat down. He looked at the bright, reddish face of the other man, at the narrow brow and the very bright eyes, and at the rather sensual lips that unrolled wide and expansive under the black cropped moustache. How curious it was that this was a human being! What Brangwen thought himself to be, how meaningless it was, confronted with the reality of him. Birkin could see only a strange, inexplicable, almost patternless collection of passions and desires and suppressions and traditions and mechanical ideas, all cast unfused and disunited into this slender, bright-faced man of nearly fifty, who was as unresolved now as he was at twenty, and as uncreated. How could he be the parent of Ursula, when he was not created himself. He was not a parent. A slip of living flesh had been transmitted through him, but the spirit had not come from him. The spirit had not come from any ancestor, it had come out of the unknown. A child is the child of the mystery, or it is uncreated. “The weather’s not so bad as it has been,” said Brangwen, after waiting a moment. There was no connection between the two men. “No,” said Birkin. “It was full moon two days ago.” “Oh! You believe in the moon then, affecting the weather?” “No, I don’t think I do. I don’t really know enough about it.” “You know what they say? The moon and the weather may change together, but the change of the moon won’t change the weather.” “Is that it?” said Birkin. “I hadn’t heard it.” There was a pause. Then Birkin said: “Am I hindering you? I called to see Ursula, really. Is she at home?” “I don’t believe she is. I believe she’s gone to the library. I’ll just see.” Birkin could hear him enquiring in the dining-room. “No,” he said, coming back. “But she won’t be long. You wanted to speak to her?” Birkin looked across at the other man with curious calm, clear eyes. “As a matter of fact,” he said, “I wanted to ask her to marry me.” A point of light came on the golden-brown eyes of the elder man. “O-oh?” he said, looking at Birkin, then dropping his eyes before the calm, steadily watching look of the other: “Was she expecting you then?” “No,” said Birkin. “No? I didn’t know anything of this sort was on foot—” Brangwen smiled awkwardly. Birkin looked back at him, and said to himself: “I wonder why it should be ‘on foot’!” Aloud he said: “No, it’s perhaps rather sudden.” At which, thinking of his relationship with Ursula, he added—“but I don’t know—” “Quite sudden, is it? Oh!” said Brangwen, rather baffled and annoyed. “In one way,” replied Birkin, “—not in another.” There was a moment’s pause, after which Brangwen said: “Well, she pleases herself—” “Oh yes!” said Birkin, calmly. A vibration came into Brangwen’s strong voice, as he replied: “Though I shouldn’t want her to be in too big a hurry, either. It’s no good looking round afterwards, when it’s too late.” “Oh, it need never be too late,” said Birkin, “as far as that goes.” “How do you mean?” asked the father. “If one repents being married, the marriage is at an end,” said Birkin. “You think so?” “Yes.” “Ay, well that may be your way of looking at it.” Birkin, in silence, thought to himself: “So it may. As for _your_ way of looking at it, William Brangwen, it needs a little explaining.” “I suppose,” said Brangwen, “you know what sort of people we are? What sort of a bringing-up she’s had?” “‘She’,” thought Birkin to himself, remembering his childhood’s corrections, “is the cat’s mother.” “Do I know what sort of a bringing-up she’s had?” he said aloud. He seemed to annoy Brangwen intentionally. “Well,” he said, “she’s had everything that’s right for a girl to have—as far as possible, as far as we could give it her.” “I’m sure she has,” said Birkin, which caused a perilous full-stop. The father was becoming exasperated. There was something naturally irritant to him in Birkin’s mere presence. “And I don’t want to see her going back on it all,” he said, in a clanging voice. “Why?” said Birkin. This monosyllable exploded in Brangwen’s brain like a shot. “Why! _I_ don’t believe in your new-fangled ways and new-fangled ideas—in and out like a frog in a gallipot. It would never do for me.” Birkin watched him with steady emotionless eyes. The radical antagnoism in the two men was rousing. “Yes, but are my ways and ideas new-fangled?” asked Birkin. “Are they?” Brangwen caught himself up. “I’m not speaking of you in particular,” he said. “What I mean is that my children have been brought up to think and do according to the religion I was brought up in myself, and I don’t want to see them going away from _that_.” There was a dangerous pause. “And beyond that—?” asked Birkin. The father hesitated, he was in a nasty position. “Eh? What do you mean? All I want to say is that my daughter”—he tailed off into silence, overcome by futility. He knew that in some way he was off the track. “Of course,” said Birkin, “I don’t want to hurt anybody or influence anybody. Ursula does exactly as she pleases.” There was a complete silence, because of the utter failure in mutual understanding. Birkin felt bored. Her father was not a coherent human being, he was a roomful of old echoes. The eyes of the younger man rested on the face of the elder. Brangwen looked up, and saw Birkin looking at him. His face was covered with inarticulate anger and humiliation and sense of inferiority in strength. “And as for beliefs, that’s one thing,” he said. “But I’d rather see my daughters dead tomorrow than that they should be at the beck and call of the first man that likes to come and whistle for them.” A queer painful light came into Birkin’s eyes. “As to that,” he said, “I only know that it’s much more likely that it’s I who am at the beck and call of the woman, than she at mine.” Again there was a pause. The father was somewhat bewildered. “I know,” he said, “she’ll please herself—she always has done. I’ve done my best for them, but that doesn’t matter. They’ve got themselves to please, and if they can help it they’ll please nobody _but_ themselves. But she’s a right to consider her mother, and me as well—” Brangwen was thinking his own thoughts. “And I tell you this much, I would rather bury them, than see them getting into a lot of loose ways such as you see everywhere nowadays. I’d rather bury them—” “Yes but, you see,” said Birkin slowly, rather wearily, bored again by this new turn, “they won’t give either you or me the chance to bury them, because they’re not to be buried.” Brangwen looked at him in a sudden flare of impotent anger. “Now, Mr Birkin,” he said, “I don’t know what you’ve come here for, and I don’t know what you’re asking for. But my daughters are my daughters—and it’s my business to look after them while I can.” Birkin’s brows knitted suddenly, his eyes concentrated in mockery. But he remained perfectly stiff and still. There was a pause. “I’ve nothing against your marrying Ursula,” Brangwen began at length. “It’s got nothing to do with me, she’ll do as she likes, me or no me.” Birkin turned away, looking out of the window and letting go his consciousness. After all, what good was this? It was hopeless to keep it up. He would sit on till Ursula came home, then speak to her, then go away. He would not accept trouble at the hands of her father. It was all unnecessary, and he himself need not have provoked it. The two men sat in complete silence, Birkin almost unconscious of his own whereabouts. He had come to ask her to marry him—well then, he would wait on, and ask her. As for what she said, whether she accepted or not, he did not think about it. He would say what he had come to say, and that was all he was conscious of. He accepted the complete insignificance of this household, for him. But everything now was as if fated. He could see one thing ahead, and no more. From the rest, he was absolved entirely for the time being. It had to be left to fate and chance to resolve the issues. At length they heard the gate. They saw her coming up the steps with a bundle of books under her arm. Her face was bright and abstracted as usual, with the abstraction, that look of being not quite _there_, not quite present to the facts of reality, that galled her father so much. She had a maddening faculty of assuming a light of her own, which