we are going to know each other, we must pledge ourselves for ever. If we are going to make a relationship, even of friendship, there must be something final and infallible about it.” There was a clang of mistrust and almost anger in his voice. She did not answer. Her heart was too much contracted. She could not have spoken. Seeing she was not going to reply, he continued, almost bitterly, giving himself away: “I can’t say it is love I have to offer—and it isn’t love I want. It is something much more impersonal and harder—and rarer.” There was a silence, out of which she said: “You mean you don’t love me?” She suffered furiously, saying that. “Yes, if you like to put it like that. Though perhaps that isn’t true. I don’t know. At any rate, I don’t feel the emotion of love for you—no, and I don’t want to. Because it gives out in the last issues.” “Love gives out in the last issues?” she asked, feeling numb to the lips. “Yes, it does. At the very last, one is alone, beyond the influence of love. There is a real impersonal me, that is beyond love, beyond any emotional relationship. So it is with you. But we want to delude ourselves that love is the root. It isn’t. It is only the branches. The root is beyond love, a naked kind of isolation, an isolated me, that does _not_ meet and mingle, and never can.” She watched him with wide, troubled eyes. His face was incandescent in its abstract earnestness. “And you mean you can’t love?” she asked, in trepidation. “Yes, if you like. I have loved. But there is a beyond, where there is not love.” She could not submit to this. She felt it swooning over her. But she could not submit. “But how do you know—if you have never _really_ loved?” she asked. “It is true, what I say; there is a beyond, in you, in me, which is further than love, beyond the scope, as stars are beyond the scope of vision, some of them.” “Then there is no love,” cried Ursula. “Ultimately, no, there is something else. But, ultimately, there _is_ no love.” Ursula was given over to this statement for some moments. Then she half rose from her chair, saying, in a final, repellent voice: “Then let me go home—what am I doing here?” “There is the door,” he said. “You are a free agent.” He was suspended finely and perfectly in this extremity. She hung motionless for some seconds, then she sat down again. “If there is no love, what is there?” she cried, almost jeering. “Something,” he said, looking at her, battling with his soul, with all his might. “What?” He was silent for a long time, unable to be in communication with her while she was in this state of opposition. “There is,” he said, in a voice of pure abstraction; “a final me which is stark and impersonal and beyond responsibility. So there is a final you. And it is there I would want to meet you—not in the emotional, loving plane—but there beyond, where there is no speech and no terms of agreement. There we are two stark, unknown beings, two utterly strange creatures, I would want to approach you, and you me. And there could be no obligation, because there is no standard for action there, because no understanding has been reaped from that plane. It is quite inhuman,—so there can be no calling to book, in any form whatsoever—because one is outside the pale of all that is accepted, and nothing known applies. One can only follow the impulse, taking that which lies in front, and responsible for nothing, asked for nothing, giving nothing, only each taking according to the primal desire.” Ursula listened to this speech, her mind dumb and almost senseless, what he said was so unexpected and so untoward. “It is just purely selfish,” she said. “If it is pure, yes. But it isn’t selfish at all. Because I don’t _know_ what I want of you. I deliver _myself_ over to the unknown, in coming to you, I am without reserves or defences, stripped entirely, into the unknown. Only there needs the pledge between us, that we will both cast off everything, cast off ourselves even, and cease to be, so that that which is perfectly ourselves can take place in us.” She pondered along her own line of thought. “But it is because you love me, that you want me?” she persisted. “No it isn’t. It is because I believe in you—if I _do_ believe in you.” “Aren’t you sure?” she laughed, suddenly hurt. He was looking at her steadfastly, scarcely heeding what she said. “Yes, I must believe in you, or else I shouldn’t be here saying this,” he replied. “But that is all the proof I have. I don’t feel any very strong belief at this particular moment.” She disliked him for this sudden relapse into weariness and faithlessness. “But don’t you think me good-looking?” she persisted, in a mocking voice. He looked at her, to see if he felt that she was good-looking. “I don’t _feel_ that you’re good-looking,” he said. “Not even attractive?” she mocked, bitingly. He knitted his brows in sudden exasperation. “Don’t you see that it’s not a question of visual appreciation in the least,” he cried. “I don’t _want_ to see you. I’ve seen plenty of women, I’m sick and weary of seeing them. I want a woman I don’t see.” “I’m sorry I can’t oblige you by being invisible,” she laughed. “Yes,” he said, “you are invisible to me, if you don’t force me to be visually aware of you. But I don’t want to see you or hear you.” “What did you ask me to tea for, then?” she mocked. But he would take no notice of her. He was talking to himself. “I want to find you, where you don’t know your own existence, the you that your common self denies utterly. But I don’t want your good looks, and I don’t want your womanly feelings, and I don’t want your thoughts nor opinions nor your ideas—they are all bagatelles to me.” “You are very conceited, Monsieur,” she mocked. “How do you know what my womanly feelings are, or my thoughts or my ideas? You don’t even know what I think of you now.” “Nor do I care in the slightest.” “I think you are very silly. I think you want to tell me you love me, and you go all this way round to do it.” “All right,” he said, looking up with sudden exasperation. “Now go away then, and leave me alone. I don’t want any more of your meretricious persiflage.” “Is it really persiflage?” she mocked, her face really relaxing into laughter. She interpreted it, that he had made a deep confession of love to her. But he was so absurd in his words, also. They were silent for many minutes, she was pleased and elated like a child. His concentration broke, he began to look at her simply and naturally. “What I want is a strange conjunction with you—” he said quietly; “not meeting and mingling—you are quite right—but an equilibrium, a pure balance of two single beings—as the stars balance each other.” She looked at him. He was very earnest, and earnestness was always rather ridiculous, commonplace, to her. It made her feel unfree and uncomfortable. Yet she liked him so much. But why drag in the stars. “Isn’t this rather sudden?” she mocked. He began to laugh. “Best to read the terms of the contract, before we sign,” he said. A young grey cat that had been sleeping on the sofa jumped down and stretched, rising on its long legs, and arching its slim back. Then it sat considering for a moment, erect and kingly. And then, like a dart, it had shot out of the room, through the open window-doors, and into the garden. “What’s he after?” said Birkin, rising. The young cat trotted lordly down the path, waving his tail. He was an ordinary tabby with white paws, a slender young gentleman. A crouching, fluffy, brownish-grey cat was stealing up the side of the fence. The Mino walked statelily up to her, with manly nonchalance. She crouched before him and pressed herself on the ground in humility, a fluffy soft outcast, looking up at him with wild eyes that were green and lovely as great jewels. He looked casually down on her. So she crept a few inches further, proceeding on her way to the back door, crouching in a wonderful, soft, self-obliterating manner, and moving like a shadow. He, going statelily on his slim legs, walked after her, then suddenly, for pure excess, he gave her a light cuff with his paw on the side of her face. She ran off a few steps, like a blown leaf along the ground,