They measured and discussed in the dining-room, and Hermione decided what the floor coverings must be. It sent her into a strange, convulsed anger, to be thwarted. Birkin always let her have her way, for the moment. Then they moved across, through the hall, to the other front room, that was a little smaller than the first. “This is the study,” said Hermione. “Rupert, I have a rug that I want you to have for here. Will you let me give it to you? Do—I want to give it you.” “What is it like?” he asked ungraciously. “You haven’t seen it. It is chiefly rose red, then blue, a metallic, mid-blue, and a very soft dark blue. I think you would like it. Do you think you would?” “It sounds very nice,” he replied. “What is it? Oriental? With a pile?” “Yes. Persian! It is made of camel’s hair, silky. I think it is called Bergamos—twelve feet by seven—. Do you think it will do?” “It would _do_,” he said. “But why should you give me an expensive rug? I can manage perfectly well with my old Oxford Turkish.” “But may I give it to you? Do let me.” “How much did it cost?” She looked at him, and said: “I don’t remember. It was quite cheap.” He looked at her, his face set. “I don’t want to take it, Hermione,” he said. “Do let me give it to the rooms,” she said, going up to him and putting her hand on his arm lightly, pleadingly. “I shall be so disappointed.” “You know I don’t want you to give me things,” he repeated helplessly. “I don’t want to give you _things_,” she said teasingly. “But will you have this?” “All right,” he said, defeated, and she triumphed. They went upstairs. There were two bedrooms to correspond with the rooms downstairs. One of them was half furnished, and Birkin had evidently slept there. Hermione went round the room carefully, taking in every detail, as if absorbing the evidence of his presence, in all the inanimate things. She felt the bed and examined the coverings. “Are you _sure_ you were quite comfortable?” she said, pressing the pillow. “Perfectly,” he replied coldly. “And were you warm? There is no down quilt. I am sure you need one. You mustn’t have a great pressure of clothes.” “I’ve got one,” he said. “It is coming down.” They measured the rooms, and lingered over every consideration. Ursula stood at the window and watched the woman carrying the tea up the bank to the pond. She hated the palaver Hermione made, she wanted to drink tea, she wanted anything but this fuss and business. At last they all mounted the grassy bank, to the picnic. Hermione poured out tea. She ignored now Ursula’s presence. And Ursula, recovering from her ill-humour, turned to Gerald saying: “Oh, I hated you so much the other day, Mr Crich,” “What for?” said Gerald, wincing slightly away. “For treating your horse so badly. Oh, I hated you so much!” “What did he do?” sang Hermione. “He made his lovely sensitive Arab horse stand with him at the railway-crossing whilst a horrible lot of trucks went by; and the poor thing, she was in a perfect frenzy, a perfect agony. It was the most horrible sight you can imagine.” “Why did you do it, Gerald?” asked Hermione, calm and interrogative. “She must learn to stand—what use is she to me in this country, if she shies and goes off every time an engine whistles.” “But why inflict unnecessary torture?” said Ursula. “Why make her stand all that time at the crossing? You might just as well have ridden back up the road, and saved all that horror. Her sides were bleeding where you had spurred her. It was too horrible—!” Gerald stiffened. “I have to use her,” he replied. “And if I’m going to be sure of her at _all_, she’ll have to learn to stand noises.” “Why should she?” cried Ursula in a passion. “She is a living creature, why should she stand anything, just because you choose to make her? She has as much right to her own being, as you have to yours.” “There I disagree,” said Gerald. “I consider that mare is there for my use. Not because I bought her, but because that is the natural order. It is more natural for a man to take a horse and use it as he likes, than for him to go down on his knees to it, begging it to do as it wishes, and to fulfil its own marvellous nature.” Ursula was just breaking out, when Hermione lifted her face and began, in her musing sing-song: “I do think—I do really think we must have the _courage_ to use the lower animal life for our needs. I do think there is something wrong, when we look on every living creature as if it were ourselves. I do feel, that it is false to project our own feelings on every animate creature. It is a lack of discrimination, a lack of criticism.” “Quite,” said Birkin sharply. “Nothing is so detestable as the maudlin attributing of human feelings and consciousness to animals.” “Yes,” said Hermione, wearily, “we must really take a position. Either we are going to use the animals, or they will use us.” “That’s a fact,” said Gerald. “A horse has got a will like a man, though it has no _mind_ strictly. And if your will isn’t master, then the horse is master of you. And this is a thing I can’t help. I can’t help being master of the horse.” “If only we could learn how to use our will,” said Hermione, “we could do anything. The will can cure anything, and put anything right. That I am convinced of—if only we use the will properly, intelligibly.” “What do you mean by using the will properly?” said Birkin. “A very great doctor taught me,” she said, addressing Ursula and Gerald vaguely. “He told me for instance, that to cure oneself of a bad habit, one should _force_ oneself to do it, when one would not do it—make oneself do it—and then the habit would disappear.” “How do you mean?” said Gerald. “If you bite your nails, for example. Then, when you don’t want to bite your nails, bite them, make yourself bite them. And you would find the habit was broken.” “Is that so?” said Gerald. “Yes. And in so many things, I have _made_ myself well. I was a very queer and nervous girl. And by learning to use my will, simply by using my will, I _made_ myself right.” Ursula looked all the while at Hermione, as she spoke in her slow, dispassionate, and yet strangely tense voice. A curious thrill went over the younger woman. Some strange, dark, convulsive power was in Hermione, fascinating and repelling. “It is fatal to use the will like that,” cried Birkin harshly, “disgusting. Such a will is an obscenity.” Hermione looked at him for a long time, with her shadowed, heavy eyes. Her face was soft and pale and thin, almost phosphorescent, her jaw was lean. “I’m sure it isn’t,” she said at length. There always seemed an interval, a strange split between what she seemed to feel and experience, and what she actually said and thought. She seemed to catch her thoughts at length from off the surface of a maelstrom of chaotic black emotions and reactions, and Birkin was always filled with repulsion, she caught so infallibly, her will never failed her. Her voice was always dispassionate and tense, and perfectly confident. Yet she shuddered with a sense of nausea, a sort of seasickness that always threatened to overwhelm her mind. But her mind remained unbroken, her will was still perfect. It almost sent Birkin mad. But he would never, never dare to break her will, and let loose the maelstrom of her subconsciousness, and see her in her ultimate madness. Yet he was always striking at her. “And of course,” he said to Gerald, “horses _haven’t_ got a complete will, like human beings. A horse has no _one_ will. Every horse, strictly, has two wills. With one will, it wants to put itself in the human power completely—and with the other, it wants to be free, wild. The two wills sometimes lock—you know that, if ever you’ve felt a horse bolt, while you’ve been driving it.” “I have felt a horse bolt while I was driving it,” said Gerald, “but it didn’t make me know it had two wills. I only knew it was frightened.” Hermione had ceased to listen. She simply became oblivious when these subjects were started. “Why should a horse want to put itself in the human power?” asked Ursula. “That is quite incomprehensible to me. I don’t believe it ever wanted it.” “Yes it did. It’s the last, perhaps highest, love-impulse: resign your will to the higher being,” said Birkin. “What