His fine, black hair somehow reminded her of a bat, thin as it was on his full, sensitive-looking head, and worn away at the temples. He sat hunched up, as if his spirit were bat-like. And Gudrun could see he was making some slow confidence to Ursula, unwilling, a slow, grudging, scanty self-revelation. She went and sat by her sister. He looked at her, then looked away again, as if he took no notice of her. But as a matter of fact, she interested him deeply. “Isn’t it interesting, Prune,” said Ursula, turning to her sister, “Herr Loerke is doing a great frieze for a factory in Cologne, for the outside, the street.” She looked at him, at his thin, brown, nervous hands, that were prehensile, and somehow like talons, like “griffes,” inhuman. “What _in?_” she asked. “_Aus was?_” repeated Ursula. “_Granit_,” he replied. It had become immediately a laconic series of question and answer between fellow craftsmen. “What is the relief?” asked Gudrun. “_Alto relievo._” “And at what height?” It was very interesting to Gudrun to think of his making the great granite frieze for a great granite factory in Cologne. She got from him some notion of the design. It was a representation of a fair, with peasants and artisans in an orgy of enjoyment, drunk and absurd in their modern dress, whirling ridiculously in roundabouts, gaping at shows, kissing and staggering and rolling in knots, swinging in swing-boats, and firing down shooting galleries, a frenzy of chaotic motion. There was a swift discussion of technicalities. Gudrun was very much impressed. “But how wonderful, to have such a factory!” cried Ursula. “Is the whole building fine?” “Oh yes,” he replied. “The frieze is part of the whole architecture. Yes, it is a colossal thing.” Then he seemed to stiffen, shrugged his shoulders, and went on: “Sculpture and architecture must go together. The day for irrelevant statues, as for wall pictures, is over. As a matter of fact sculpture is always part of an architectural conception. And since churches are all museum stuff, since industry is our business, now, then let us make our places of industry our art—our factory-area our Parthenon, _ecco!_” Ursula pondered. “I suppose,” she said, “there is no _need_ for our great works to be so hideous.” Instantly he broke into motion. “There you are!” he cried, “there you are! There is not only _no need_ for our places of work to be ugly, but their ugliness ruins the work, in the end. Men will not go on submitting to such intolerable ugliness. In the end it will hurt too much, and they will wither because of it. And this will wither the _work_ as well. They will think the work itself is ugly: the machines, the very act of labour. Whereas the machinery and the acts of labour are extremely, maddeningly beautiful. But this will be the end of our civilisation, when people will not work because work has become so intolerable to their senses, it nauseates them too much, they would rather starve. _Then_ we shall see the hammer used only for smashing, then we shall see it. Yet here we are—we have the opportunity to make beautiful factories, beautiful machine-houses—we have the opportunity—” Gudrun could only partly understand. She could have cried with vexation. “What does he say?” she asked Ursula. And Ursula translated, stammering and brief. Loerke watched Gudrun’s face, to see her judgment. “And do you think then,” said Gudrun, “that art should serve industry?” “Art should _interpret_ industry, as art once interpreted religion,” he said. “But does your fair interpret industry?” she asked him. “Certainly. What is man doing, when he is at a fair like this? He is fulfilling the counterpart of labour—the machine works him, instead of he the machine. He enjoys the mechanical motion, in his own body.” “But is there nothing but work—mechanical work?” said Gudrun. “Nothing but work!” he repeated, leaning forward, his eyes two darknesses, with needle-points of light. “No, it is nothing but this, serving a machine, or enjoying the motion of a machine—motion, that is all. You have never worked for hunger, or you would know what god governs us.” Gudrun quivered and flushed. For some reason she was almost in tears. “No, I have not worked for hunger,” she replied, “but I have worked!” “_Travaillé—lavorato?_” he asked. “_E che lavoro—che lavoro? Quel travail est-ce que vous avez fait?_” He broke into a mixture of Italian and French, instinctively using a foreign language when he spoke to her. “You have never worked as the world works,” he said to her, with sarcasm. “Yes,” she said. “I have. And I do—I work now for my daily bread.” He paused, looked at her steadily, then dropped the subject entirely. She seemed to him to be trifling. “But have _you_ ever worked as the world works?” Ursula asked him. He looked at her untrustful. “Yes,” he replied, with a surly bark. “I have known what it was to lie in bed for three days, because I had nothing to eat.” Gudrun was looking at him with large, grave eyes, that seemed to draw the confession from him as the marrow from his bones. All his nature held him back from confessing. And yet her large, grave eyes upon him seemed to open some valve in his veins, and involuntarily he was telling. “My father was a man who did not like work, and we had no mother. We lived in Austria, Polish Austria. How did we live? Ha!—somehow! Mostly in a room with three other families—one set in each corner—and the W.C. in the middle of the room—a pan with a plank on it—ha! I had two brothers and a sister—and there might be a woman with my father. He was a free being, in his way—would fight with any man in the town—a garrison town—and was a little man too. But he wouldn’t work for anybody—set his heart against it, and wouldn’t.” “And how did you live then?” asked Ursula. He looked at her—then, suddenly, at Gudrun. “Do you understand?” he asked. “Enough,” she replied. Their eyes met for a moment. Then he looked away. He would say no more. “And how did you become a sculptor?” asked Ursula. “How did I become a sculptor—” he paused. “_Dunque_—” he resumed, in a changed manner, and beginning to speak French—“I became old enough—I used to steal from the market-place. Later I went to work—imprinted the stamp on clay bottles, before they were baked. It was an earthenware-bottle factory. There I began making models. One day, I had had enough. I lay in the sun and did not go to work. Then I walked to Munich—then I walked to Italy—begging, begging everything.” “The Italians were very good to me—they were good and honourable to me. From Bozen to Rome, almost every night I had a meal and a bed, perhaps of straw, with some peasant. I love the Italian people, with all my heart. “_Dunque, adesso—maintenant_—I earn a thousand pounds in a year, or I earn two thousand—” He looked down at the ground, his voice tailing off into silence. Gudrun looked at his fine, thin, shiny skin, reddish-brown from the sun, drawn tight over his full temples; and at his thin hair—and at the thick, coarse, brush-like moustache, cut short about his mobile, rather shapeless mouth. “How old are you?” she asked. He looked up at her with his full, elfin eyes startled. “_Wie alt?_” he repeated. And he hesitated. It was evidently one of his reticencies. “How old are _you?_” he replied, without answering. “I am twenty-six,” she answered. “Twenty-six,” he repeated, looking into her eyes. He paused. Then he said: “_Und Ihr Herr Gemahl, wie alt ist er?_” “Who?” asked Gudrun. “Your husband,” said Ursula, with a certain irony. “I haven’t got a husband,” said Gudrun in English. In German she answered, “He is thirty-one.” But Loerke was watching closely, with his uncanny, full, suspicious eyes. Something in Gudrun seemed to accord with him. He was really like one of the “little people’ who have no soul, who has found his mate in a human being. But he suffered in his discovery. She too was fascinated by him, fascinated, as if some strange creature, a rabbit or a bat, or a brown seal, had begun to talk to her. But also, she knew what he was unconscious of, his tremendous power of understanding, of apprehending her living motion. He did not know his own power. He did not know how, with his full, submerged, watchful eyes, he could look into her and see her, what she was, see her secrets. He would only want her to be herself—he knew her verily, with a subconscious, sinister knowledge, devoid of illusions and hopes. To Gudrun, there was in Loerke the rock-bottom of all life. Everybody else had their illusion, must have their illusion, their before and after. But he, with a perfect stoicism, did