She only felt Hermione’s cool evidence, which seemed to put her down as nothing. Hermione, who brooded and brooded till she was exhausted with the ache of her effort at consciousness, spent and ashen in her body, who gained so slowly and with such effort her final and barren conclusions of knowledge, was apt, in the presence of other women, whom she thought simply female, to wear the conclusions of her bitter assurance like jewels which conferred on her an unquestionable distinction, established her in a higher order of life. She was apt, mentally, to condescend to women such as Ursula, whom she regarded as purely emotional. Poor Hermione, it was her one possession, this aching certainty of hers, it was her only justification. She must be confident here, for God knows, she felt rejected and deficient enough elsewhere. In the life of thought, of the spirit, she was one of the elect. And she wanted to be universal. But there was a devastating cynicism at the bottom of her. She did not believe in her own universals—they were sham. She did not believe in the inner life—it was a trick, not a reality. She did not believe in the spiritual world—it was an affectation. In the last resort, she believed in Mammon, the flesh, and the devil—these at least were not sham. She was a priestess without belief, without conviction, suckled in a creed outworn, and condemned to the reiteration of mysteries that were not divine to her. Yet there was no escape. She was a leaf upon a dying tree. What help was there then, but to fight still for the old, withered truths, to die for the old, outworn belief, to be a sacred and inviolate priestess of desecrated mysteries? The old great truths _had_ been true. And she was a leaf of the old great tree of knowledge that was withering now. To the old and last truth then she must be faithful even though cynicism and mockery took place at the bottom of her soul. “I am so glad to see you,” she said to Ursula, in her slow voice, that was like an incantation. “You and Rupert have become quite friends?” “Oh yes,” said Ursula. “He is always somewhere in the background.” Hermione paused before she answered. She saw perfectly well the other woman’s vaunt: it seemed truly vulgar. “Is he?” she said slowly, and with perfect equanimity. “And do you think you will marry?” The question was so calm and mild, so simple and bare and dispassionate that Ursula was somewhat taken aback, rather attracted. It pleased her almost like a wickedness. There was some delightful naked irony in Hermione. “Well,” replied Ursula, “_He_ wants to, awfully, but I’m not so sure.” Hermione watched her with slow calm eyes. She noted this new expression of vaunting. How she envied Ursula a certain unconscious positivity! even her vulgarity! “Why aren’t you sure?” she asked, in her easy sing song. She was perfectly at her ease, perhaps even rather happy in this conversation. “You don’t really love him?” Ursula flushed a little at the mild impertinence of this question. And yet she could not definitely take offence. Hermione seemed so calmly and sanely candid. After all, it was rather great to be able to be so sane. “He says it isn’t love he wants,” she replied. “What is it then?” Hermione was slow and level. “He wants me really to accept him in marriage.” Hermione was silent for some time, watching Ursula with slow, pensive eyes. “Does he?” she said at length, without expression. Then, rousing, “And what is it you don’t want? You don’t want marriage?” “No—I don’t—not really. I don’t want to give the sort of _submission_ he insists on. He wants me to give myself up—and I simply don’t feel that I _can_ do it.” Again there was a long pause, before Hermione replied: “Not if you don’t want to.” Then again there was silence. Hermione shuddered with a strange desire. Ah, if only he had asked _her_ to subserve him, to be his slave! She shuddered with desire. “You see I can’t—” “But exactly in what does—” They had both begun at once, they both stopped. Then, Hermione, assuming priority of speech, resumed as if wearily: “To what does he want you to submit?” “He says he wants me to accept him non-emotionally, and finally—I really don’t know _what_ he means. He says he wants the demon part of himself to be mated—physically—not the human being. You see he says one thing one day, and another the next—and he always contradicts himself—” “And always thinks about himself, and his own dissatisfaction,” said Hermione slowly. “Yes,” cried Ursula. “As if there were no one but himself concerned. That makes it so impossible.” But immediately she began to retract. “He insists on my accepting God knows what in _him_,” she resumed. “He wants me to accept _him_ as—as an absolute—But it seems to me he doesn’t want to _give_ anything. He doesn’t want real warm intimacy—he won’t have it—he rejects it. He won’t let me think, really, and he won’t let me _feel_—he hates feelings.” There was a long pause, bitter for Hermione. Ah, if only he would have made this demand of her? Her he _drove_ into thought, drove inexorably into knowledge—and then execrated her for it. “He wants me to sink myself,” Ursula resumed, “not to have any being of my own—” “Then why doesn’t he marry an odalisk?” said Hermione in her mild sing-song, “if it is that he wants.” Her long face looked sardonic and amused. “Yes,” said Ursula vaguely. After all, the tiresome thing was, he did not want an odalisk, he did not want a slave. Hermione would have been his slave—there was in her a horrible desire to prostrate herself before a man—a man who worshipped her, however, and admitted her as the supreme thing. He did not want an odalisk. He wanted a woman to _take_ something from him, to give herself up so much that she could take the last realities of him, the last facts, the last physical facts, physical and unbearable. And if she did, would he acknowledge her? Would he be able to acknowledge her through everything, or would he use her just as his instrument, use her for his own private satisfaction, not admitting her? That was what the other men had done. They had wanted their own show, and they would not admit her, they turned all she was into nothingness. Just as Hermione now betrayed herself as a woman. Hermione was like a man, she believed only in men’s things. She betrayed the woman in herself. And Birkin, would he acknowledge, or would he deny her? “Yes,” said Hermione, as each woman came out of her own separate reverie. “It would be a mistake—I think it would be a mistake—” “To marry him?” asked Ursula. “Yes,” said Hermione slowly—“I think you need a man—soldierly, strong-willed—” Hermione held out her hand and clenched it with rhapsodic intensity. “You should have a man like the old heroes—you need to stand behind him as he goes into battle, you need to _see_ his strength, and to _hear_ his shout—. You need a man physically strong, and virile in his will, _not_ a sensitive man—.” There was a break, as if the pythoness had uttered the oracle, and now the woman went on, in a rhapsody-wearied voice: “And you see, Rupert isn’t this, he isn’t. He is frail in health and body, he needs great, great care. Then he is so changeable and unsure of himself—it requires the greatest patience and understanding to help him. And I don’t think you are patient. You would have to be prepared to suffer—dreadfully. I can’t _tell_ you how much suffering it would take to make him happy. He lives an _intensely_ spiritual life, at times—too, too wonderful. And then come the reactions. I can’t speak of what I have been through with him. We have been together so long, I really do know him, I _do_ know what he is. And I feel I must say it; I feel it would be perfectly _disastrous_ for you to marry him—for you even more than for him.” Hermione lapsed into bitter reverie. “He is so uncertain, so unstable—he wearies, and then reacts. I couldn’t _tell_ you what his reactions are. I couldn’t _tell_ you the agony of them. That which he affirms and loves one day—a little latter he turns on it in a fury of destruction. He is never constant, always this awful, dreadful reaction. Always the quick change from good to bad, bad to good. And nothing is so devastating, nothing—” “Yes,” said Ursula humbly, “you must have suffered.” An unearthly light came on Hermione’s face. She clenched her hand like one inspired. “And one must be willing to suffer—willing to suffer for him hourly, daily—if you are going to help him, if he is