she trembled slightly from the proximity of the man, who stood just behind her, suggestive of the same black licentiousness that rose in herself. She wanted it with him, this unacknowledged frenzy. For a moment the clear perception of this preoccupied her, distinct and perfect in its final reality. Then she shut it off completely, saying: “We might as well go down to the lodge after Winifred—we can get in the car there.” “So we can,” he answered, going with her. They found Winifred at the lodge admiring the litter of purebred white puppies. The girl looked up, and there was a rather ugly, unseeing cast in her eyes as she turned to Gerald and Gudrun. She did not want to see them. “Look!” she cried. “Three new puppies! Marshall says this one seems perfect. Isn’t it a sweetling? But it isn’t so nice as its mother.” She turned to caress the fine white bull-terrier bitch that stood uneasily near her. “My dearest Lady Crich,” she said, “you are beautiful as an angel on earth. Angel—angel—don’t you think she’s good enough and beautiful enough to go to heaven, Gudrun? They will be in heaven, won’t they—and _especially_ my darling Lady Crich! Mrs Marshall, I say!” “Yes, Miss Winifred?” said the woman, appearing at the door. “Oh do call this one Lady Winifred, if she turns out perfect, will you? Do tell Marshall to call it Lady Winifred.” “I’ll tell him—but I’m afraid that’s a gentleman puppy, Miss Winifred.” “Oh _no!_” There was the sound of a car. “There’s Rupert!” cried the child, and she ran to the gate. Birkin, driving his car, pulled up outside the lodge gate. “We’re ready!” cried Winifred. “I want to sit in front with you, Rupert. May I?” “I’m afraid you’ll fidget about and fall out,” he said. “No I won’t. I do want to sit in front next to you. It makes my feet so lovely and warm, from the engines.” Birkin helped her up, amused at sending Gerald to sit by Gudrun in the body of the car. “Have you any news, Rupert?” Gerald called, as they rushed along the lanes. “News?” exclaimed Birkin. “Yes,” Gerald looked at Gudrun, who sat by his side, and he said, his eyes narrowly laughing, “I want to know whether I ought to congratulate him, but I can’t get anything definite out of him.” Gudrun flushed deeply. “Congratulate him on what?” she asked. “There was some mention of an engagement—at least, he said something to me about it.” Gudrun flushed darkly. “You mean with Ursula?” she said, in challenge. “Yes. That is so, isn’t it?” “I don’t think there’s any engagement,” said Gudrun, coldly. “That so? Still no developments, Rupert?” he called. “Where? Matrimonial? No.” “How’s that?” called Gudrun. Birkin glanced quickly round. There was irritation in his eyes also. “Why?” he replied. “What do you think of it, Gudrun?” “Oh,” she cried, determined to fling her stone also into the pool, since they had begun, “I don’t think she wants an engagement. Naturally, she’s a bird that prefers the bush.” Gudrun’s voice was clear and gong-like. It reminded Rupert of her father’s, so strong and vibrant. “And I,” said Birkin, his face playful but yet determined, “I want a binding contract, and am not keen on love, particularly free love.” They were both amused. _Why_ this public avowal? Gerald seemed suspended a moment, in amusement. “Love isn’t good enough for you?” he called. “No!” shouted Birkin. “Ha, well that’s being over-refined,” said Gerald, and the car ran through the mud. “What’s the matter, really?” said Gerald, turning to Gudrun. This was an assumption of a sort of intimacy that irritated Gudrun almost like an affront. It seemed to her that Gerald was deliberately insulting her, and infringing on the decent privacy of them all. “What is it?” she said, in her high, repellent voice. “Don’t ask me!—I know nothing about _ultimate_ marriage, I assure you: or even penultimate.” “Only the ordinary unwarrantable brand!” replied Gerald. “Just so—same here. I am no expert on marriage, and degrees of ultimateness. It seems to be a bee that buzzes loudly in Rupert’s bonnet.” “Exactly! But that is his trouble, exactly! Instead of wanting a woman for herself, he wants his _ideas_ fulfilled. Which, when it comes to actual practice, is not good enough.” “Oh no. Best go slap for what’s womanly in woman, like a bull at a gate.” Then he seemed to glimmer in himself. “You think love is the ticket, do you?” he asked. “Certainly, while it lasts—you only can’t insist on permanency,” came Gudrun’s voice, strident above the noise. “Marriage or no marriage, ultimate or penultimate or just so-so?—take the love as you find it.” “As you please, or as you don’t please,” she echoed. “Marriage is a social arrangement, I take it, and has nothing to do with the question of love.” His eyes were flickering on her all the time. She felt as is he were kissing her freely and malevolently. It made the colour burn in her cheeks, but her heart was quite firm and unfailing. “You think Rupert is off his head a bit?” Gerald asked. Her eyes flashed with acknowledgment. “As regards a woman, yes,” she said, “I do. There _is_ such a thing as two people being in love for the whole of their lives—perhaps. But marriage is neither here nor there, even then. If they are in love, well and good. If not—why break eggs about it!” “Yes,” said Gerald. “That’s how it strikes me. But what about Rupert?” “I can’t make out—neither can he nor anybody. He seems to think that if you marry you can get through marriage into a third heaven, or something—all very vague.” “Very! And who wants a third heaven? As a matter of fact, Rupert has a great yearning to be _safe_—to tie himself to the mast.” “Yes. It seems to me he’s mistaken there too,” said Gudrun. “I’m sure a mistress is more likely to be faithful than a wife—just because she is her _own_ mistress. No—he says he believes that a man and wife can go further than any other two beings—but _where_, is not explained. They can know each other, heavenly and hellish, but particularly hellish, so perfectly that they go beyond heaven and hell—into—there it all breaks down—into nowhere.” “Into Paradise, he says,” laughed Gerald. Gudrun shrugged her shoulders. “_Je m’en fiche_ of your Paradise!” she said. “Not being a Mohammedan,” said Gerald. Birkin sat motionless, driving the car, quite unconscious of what they said. And Gudrun, sitting immediately behind him, felt a sort of ironic pleasure in thus exposing him. “He says,” she added, with a grimace of irony, “that you can find an eternal equilibrium in marriage, if you accept the unison, and still leave yourself separate, don’t try to fuse.” “Doesn’t inspire me,” said Gerald. “That’s just it,” said Gudrun. “I believe in love, in a real _abandon_, if you’re capable of it,” said Gerald. “So do I,” said she. “And so does Rupert, too—though he is always shouting.” “No,” said Gudrun. “He won’t abandon himself to the other person. You can’t be sure of him. That’s the trouble I think.” “Yet he wants marriage! Marriage—_et puis?_” “_Le paradis!_” mocked Gudrun. Birkin, as he drove, felt a creeping of the spine, as if somebody was threatening his neck. But he shrugged with indifference. It began to rain. Here was a change. He stopped the car and got down to put up the hood. CHAPTER XXII. WOMAN TO WOMAN They came to the town, and left Gerald at the railway station. Gudrun and Winifred were to come to tea with Birkin, who expected Ursula also. In the afternoon, however, the first person to turn up was Hermione. Birkin was out, so she went in the drawing-room, looking at his books and papers, and playing on the piano. Then Ursula arrived. She was surprised, unpleasantly so, to see Hermione, of whom she had heard nothing for some time. “It is a surprise to see you,” she said. “Yes,” said Hermione—“I’ve been away at Aix—” “Oh, for your health?” “Yes.” The two women looked at each other. Ursula resented Hermione’s long, grave, downward-looking face. There was something of the stupidity and the unenlightened self-esteem of a horse in it. “She’s got a horse-face,” Ursula said to herself, “she runs between blinkers.” It did seem as if Hermione, like the moon, had only one side to her penny. There was no obverse. She stared out all the time on the narrow, but to her, complete world of the extant consciousness. In the darkness, she did not exist. Like the moon, one half of her was lost to life. Her self was all in her head, she did not know what it was spontaneously to run or move, like a fish in the water, or a weasel on the grass. She must always _know_. But Ursula only suffered from Hermione’s one-sidedness.