experiences I’ve ever had.” She spoke rapidly and excitedly, the colour high in her cheeks. “There was absolutely nowhere to sit down, nowhere, a man just above sang ‘Rocked in the Cradle of the Deep’ the _whole_ way; he was blind and he had a small organ, one of those portable organs, and he expected money; so you can imagine what _that_ was like; there came a constant smell of luncheon from below, and puffs of hot oily machinery; the journey took hours and hours and hours; and for miles, literally for miles, dreadful boys ran with us on the shore, in that _awful_ Thames mud, going in _up to the waist_—they had their trousers turned back, and they went up to their hips in that indescribable Thames mud, their faces always turned to us, and screaming, exactly like carrion creatures, screaming ‘’Ere y’are sir, ’ere y’are sir, ’ere y’are sir,’ exactly like some foul carrion objects, perfectly obscene; and paterfamilias on board, laughing when the boys went right down in that awful mud, occasionally throwing them a ha’penny. And if you’d seen the intent look on the faces of these boys, and the way they darted in the filth when a coin was flung—really, no vulture or jackal could dream of approaching them, for foulness. I _never_ would go on a pleasure boat again—never.” Gerald watched her all the time she spoke, his eyes glittering with faint rousedness. It was not so much what she said; it was she herself who roused him, roused him with a small, vivid pricking. “Of course,” he said, “every civilised body is bound to have its vermin.” “Why?” cried Ursula. “I don’t have vermin.” “And it’s not that—it’s the _quality_ of the whole thing—paterfamilias laughing and thinking it sport, and throwing the ha’pennies, and materfamilias spreading her fat little knees and eating, continually eating—” replied Gudrun. “Yes,” said Ursula. “It isn’t the boys so much who are vermin; it’s the people themselves, the whole body politic, as you call it.” Gerald laughed. “Never mind,” he said. “You shan’t go on the launch.” Gudrun flushed quickly at his rebuke. There were a few moments of silence. Gerald, like a sentinel, was watching the people who were going on to the boat. He was very good-looking and self-contained, but his air of soldierly alertness was rather irritating. “Will you have tea here then, or go across to the house, where there’s a tent on the lawn?” he asked. “Can’t we have a rowing boat, and get out?” asked Ursula, who was always rushing in too fast. “To get out?” smiled Gerald. “You see,” cried Gudrun, flushing at Ursula’s outspoken rudeness, “we don’t know the people, we are almost _complete_ strangers here.” “Oh, I can soon set you up with a few acquaintances,” he said easily. Gudrun looked at him, to see if it were ill-meant. Then she smiled at him. “Ah,” she said, “you know what we mean. Can’t we go up there, and explore that coast?” She pointed to a grove on the hillock of the meadow-side, near the shore half way down the lake. “That looks perfectly lovely. We might even bathe. Isn’t it beautiful in this light. Really, it’s like one of the reaches of the Nile—as one imagines the Nile.” Gerald smiled at her factitious enthusiasm for the distant spot. “You’re sure it’s far enough off?” he asked ironically, adding at once: “Yes, you might go there, if we could get a boat. They seem to be all out.” He looked round the lake and counted the rowing boats on its surface. “How lovely it would be!” cried Ursula wistfully. “And don’t you want tea?” he said. “Oh,” said Gudrun, “we could just drink a cup, and be off.” He looked from one to the other, smiling. He was somewhat offended—yet sporting. “Can you manage a boat pretty well?” he asked. “Yes,” replied Gudrun, coldly, “pretty well.” “Oh yes,” cried Ursula. “We can both of us row like water-spiders.” “You can? There’s a light little canoe of mine, that I didn’t take out for fear somebody should drown themselves. Do you think you’d be safe in that?” “Oh perfectly,” said Gudrun. “What an angel!” cried Ursula. “Don’t, for _my_ sake, have an accident—because I’m responsible for the water.” “Sure,” pledged Gudrun. “Besides, we can both swim quite well,” said Ursula. “Well—then I’ll get them to put you up a tea-basket, and you can picnic all to yourselves,—that’s the idea, isn’t it?” “How fearfully good! How frightfully nice if you could!” cried Gudrun warmly, her colour flushing up again. It made the blood stir in his veins, the subtle way she turned to him and infused her gratitude into his body. “Where’s Birkin?” he said, his eyes twinkling. “He might help me to get it down.” “But what about your hand? Isn’t it hurt?” asked Gudrun, rather muted, as if avoiding the intimacy. This was the first time the hurt had been mentioned. The curious way she skirted round the subject sent a new, subtle caress through his veins. He took his hand out of his pocket. It was bandaged. He looked at it, then put it in his pocket again. Gudrun quivered at the sight of the wrapped up paw. “Oh I can manage with one hand. The canoe is as light as a feather,” he said. “There’s Rupert!—Rupert!” Birkin turned from his social duties and came towards them. “What have you done to it?” asked Ursula, who had been aching to put the question for the last half hour. “To my hand?” said Gerald. “I trapped it in some machinery.” “Ugh!” said Ursula. “And did it hurt much?” “Yes,” he said. “It did at the time. It’s getting better now. It crushed the fingers.” “Oh,” cried Ursula, as if in pain, “I hate people who hurt themselves. I can _feel_ it.” And she shook her hand. “What do you want?” said Birkin. The two men carried down the slim brown boat, and set it on the water. “You’re quite sure you’ll be safe in it?” Gerald asked. “Quite sure,” said Gudrun. “I wouldn’t be so mean as to take it, if there was the slightest doubt. But I’ve had a canoe at Arundel, and I assure you I’m perfectly safe.” So saying, having given her word like a man, she and Ursula entered the frail craft, and pushed gently off. The two men stood watching them. Gudrun was paddling. She knew the men were watching her, and it made her slow and rather clumsy. The colour flew in her face like a flag. “Thanks awfully,” she called back to him, from the water, as the boat slid away. “It’s lovely—like sitting in a leaf.” He laughed at the fancy. Her voice was shrill and strange, calling from the distance. He watched her as she paddled away. There was something childlike about her, trustful and deferential, like a child. He watched her all the while, as she rowed. And to Gudrun it was a real delight, in make-belief, to be the childlike, clinging woman to the man who stood there on the quay, so good-looking and efficient in his white clothes, and moreover the most important man she knew at the moment. She did not take any notice of the wavering, indistinct, lambent Birkin, who stood at his side. One figure at a time occupied the field of her attention. The boat rustled lightly along the water. They passed the bathers whose striped tents stood between the willows of the meadow’s edge, and drew along the open shore, past the meadows that sloped golden in the light of the already late afternoon. Other boats were stealing under the wooded shore opposite, they could hear people’s laughter and voices. But Gudrun rowed on towards the clump of trees that balanced perfect in the distance, in the golden light. The sisters found a little place where a tiny stream flowed into the lake, with reeds and flowery marsh of pink willow herb, and a gravelly bank to the side. Here they ran delicately ashore, with their frail boat, the two girls took off their shoes and stockings and went through the water’s edge to the grass. The tiny ripples of the lake were warm and clear, they lifted their boat on to the bank, and looked round with joy. They were quite alone in a forsaken little stream-mouth, and on the knoll just behind was the clump of trees. “We will bathe just for a moment,” said Ursula, “and then we’ll have tea.” They looked round. Nobody could notice them, or could come up in time to see them. In less than a minute Ursula had thrown off her clothes and had slipped naked into the water, and was swimming out. Quickly, Gudrun joined her. They swam silently and blissfully for a few minutes, circling round their little stream-mouth. Then they slipped ashore and ran into the grove again, like nymphs. “How lovely