the distance was an angry redness of sunset. It was all cold, somehow small, crowded, and like the end of the world. “I don’t mind it even then,” said Ursula, looking at the repulsiveness of it all. “It doesn’t concern me.” “No more it does,” he replied, holding her hand. “One needn’t see. One goes one’s way. In my world it is sunny and spacious—” “It is, my love, isn’t it?” she cried, hugging near to him on the top of the tramcar, so that the other passengers stared at them. “And we will wander about on the face of the earth,” he said, “and we’ll look at the world beyond just this bit.” There was a long silence. Her face was radiant like gold, as she sat thinking. “I don’t want to inherit the earth,” she said. “I don’t want to inherit anything.” He closed his hand over hers. “Neither do I. I want to be disinherited.” She clasped his fingers closely. “We won’t care about _anything_,” she said. He sat still, and laughed. “And we’ll be married, and have done with them,” she added. Again he laughed. “It’s one way of getting rid of everything,” she said, “to get married.” “And one way of accepting the whole world,” he added. “A whole other world, yes,” she said happily. “Perhaps there’s Gerald—and Gudrun—” he said. “If there is there is, you see,” she said. “It’s no good our worrying. We can’t really alter them, can we?” “No,” he said. “One has no right to try—not with the best intentions in the world.” “Do you try to force them?” she asked. “Perhaps,” he said. “Why should I want him to be free, if it isn’t his business?” She paused for a time. “We can’t _make_ him happy, anyhow,” she said. “He’d have to be it of himself.” “I know,” he said. “But we want other people with us, don’t we?” “Why should we?” she asked. “I don’t know,” he said uneasily. “One has a hankering after a sort of further fellowship.” “But why?” she insisted. “Why should you hanker after other people? Why should you need them?” This hit him right on the quick. His brows knitted. “Does it end with just our two selves?” he asked, tense. “Yes—what more do you want? If anybody likes to come along, let them. But why must you run after them?” His face was tense and unsatisfied. “You see,” he said, “I always imagine our being really happy with some few other people—a little freedom with people.” She pondered for a moment. “Yes, one does want that. But it must _happen_. You can’t do anything for it with your will. You always seem to think you can _force_ the flowers to come out. People must love us because they love us—you can’t _make_ them.” “I know,” he said. “But must one take no steps at all? Must one just go as if one were alone in the world—the only creature in the world?” “You’ve got me,” she said. “Why should you _need_ others? Why must you force people to agree with you? Why can’t you be single by yourself, as you are always saying? You try to bully Gerald—as you tried to bully Hermione. You must learn to be alone. And it’s so horrid of you. You’ve got me. And yet you want to force other people to love you as well. You do try to bully them to love you. And even then, you don’t want their love.” His face was full of real perplexity. “Don’t I?” he said. “It’s the problem I can’t solve. I _know_ I want a perfect and complete relationship with you: and we’ve nearly got it—we really have. But beyond that. _Do_ I want a real, ultimate relationship with Gerald? Do I want a final almost extra-human relationship with him—a relationship in the ultimate of me and him—or don’t I?” She looked at him for a long time, with strange bright eyes, but she did not answer. CHAPTER XXVII. FLITTING That evening Ursula returned home very bright-eyed and wondrous—which irritated her people. Her father came home at suppertime, tired after the evening class, and the long journey home. Gudrun was reading, the mother sat in silence. Suddenly Ursula said to the company at large, in a bright voice, “Rupert and I are going to be married tomorrow.” Her father turned round, stiffly. “You what?” he said. “Tomorrow!” echoed Gudrun. “Indeed!” said the mother. But Ursula only smiled wonderfully, and did not reply. “Married tomorrow!” cried her father harshly. “What are you talking about.” “Yes,” said Ursula. “Why not?” Those two words, from her, always drove him mad. “Everything is all right—we shall go to the registrar’s office—” There was a second’s hush in the room, after Ursula’s blithe vagueness. “_Really_, Ursula!” said Gudrun. “Might we ask why there has been all this secrecy?” demanded the mother, rather superbly. “But there hasn’t,” said Ursula. “You knew.” “Who knew?” now cried the father. “Who knew? What do you mean by your ‘you knew’?” He was in one of his stupid rages, she instantly closed against him. “Of course you knew,” she said coolly. “You knew we were going to get married.” There was a dangerous pause. “We knew you were going to get married, did we? Knew! Why, does anybody know anything about you, you shifty bitch!” “Father!” cried Gudrun, flushing deep in violent remonstrance. Then, in a cold, but gentle voice, as if to remind her sister to be tractable: “But isn’t it a _fearfully_ sudden decision, Ursula?” she asked. “No, not really,” replied Ursula, with the same maddening cheerfulness. “He’s been _wanting_ me to agree for weeks—he’s had the licence ready. Only I—I wasn’t ready in myself. Now I am ready—is there anything to be disagreeable about?” “Certainly not,” said Gudrun, but in a tone of cold reproof. “You are perfectly free to do as you like.” “‘Ready in yourself’—_yourself_, that’s all that matters, isn’t it! ‘I wasn’t ready in myself,’” he mimicked her phrase offensively. “You and _yourself_, you’re of some importance, aren’t you?” She drew herself up and set back her throat, her eyes shining yellow and dangerous. “I am to myself,” she said, wounded and mortified. “I know I am not to anybody else. You only wanted to _bully_ me—you never cared for my happiness.” He was leaning forward watching her, his face intense like a spark. “Ursula, what are you saying? Keep your tongue still,” cried her mother. Ursula swung round, and the lights in her eyes flashed. “No, I won’t,” she cried. “I won’t hold my tongue and be bullied. What does it matter which day I get married—what does it _matter!_ It doesn’t affect anybody but myself.” Her father was tense and gathered together like a cat about to spring. “Doesn’t it?” he cried, coming nearer to her. She shrank away. “No, how can it?” she replied, shrinking but stubborn. “It doesn’t matter to _me_ then, what you do—what becomes of you?” he cried, in a strange voice like a cry. The mother and Gudrun stood back as if hypnotised. “No,” stammered Ursula. Her father was very near to her. “You only want to—” She knew it was dangerous, and she stopped. He was gathered together, every muscle ready. “What?” he challenged. “Bully me,” she muttered, and even as her lips were moving, his hand had caught her smack at the side of the face and she was sent up against the door. “Father!” cried Gudrun in a high voice, “it is impossible!” He stood unmoving. Ursula recovered, her hand was on the door handle. She slowly drew herself up. He seemed doubtful now. “It’s true,” she declared, with brilliant tears in her eyes, her head lifted up in defiance. “What has your love meant, what did it ever mean?—bullying, and denial—it did—” He was advancing again with strange, tense movements, and clenched fist, and the face of a murderer. But swift as lightning she had flashed out of the door, and they heard her running upstairs. He stood for a moment looking at the door. Then, like a defeated animal, he turned and went back to his seat by the fire. Gudrun was very white. Out of the intense silence, the mother’s voice was heard saying, cold and angry: “Well, you shouldn’t take so much notice of her.” Again the silence fell, each followed a separate set of emotions and thoughts. Suddenly the door opened again: Ursula, dressed in hat and furs, with a small valise in her hand: “Good-bye!” she said, in her maddening, bright, almost mocking tone. “I’m going.” And in the next instant the door was closed, they heard the outer door, then her quick steps down the garden path, then the gate banged, and her light footfall was gone. There was a silence like death in the house. Ursula went straight to the station, hastening heedlessly on winged feet. There was no train, she must walk