he replied coldly. They had sat down under the willow tree, and were looking at the pond, from their retreat on the island. “Has it made you frightened?” she asked. “What of?” he asked, turning his eyes to look at her. Something in him, inhuman and unmitigated, disturbed her, and shook her out of her ordinary self. “It _is_ frightening to be very ill, isn’t it?” she said. “It isn’t pleasant,” he said. “Whether one is really afraid of death, or not, I have never decided. In one mood, not a bit, in another, very much.” “But doesn’t it make you feel ashamed? I think it makes one so ashamed, to be ill—illness is so terribly humiliating, don’t you think?” He considered for some minutes. “Maybe,” he said. “Though one knows all the time one’s life isn’t really right, at the source. That’s the humiliation. I don’t see that the illness counts so much, after that. One is ill because one doesn’t live properly—can’t. It’s the failure to live that makes one ill, and humiliates one.” “But do you fail to live?” she asked, almost jeering. “Why yes—I don’t make much of a success of my days. One seems always to be bumping one’s nose against the blank wall ahead.” Ursula laughed. She was frightened, and when she was frightened she always laughed and pretended to be jaunty. “Your poor nose!” she said, looking at that feature of his face. “No wonder it’s ugly,” he replied. She was silent for some minutes, struggling with her own self-deception. It was an instinct in her, to deceive herself. “But _I’m_ happy—I think life is _awfully_ jolly,” she said. “Good,” he answered, with a certain cold indifference. She reached for a bit of paper which had wrapped a small piece of chocolate she had found in her pocket, and began making a boat. He watched her without heeding her. There was something strangely pathetic and tender in her moving, unconscious finger-tips, that were agitated and hurt, really. “I _do_ enjoy things—don’t you?” she asked. “Oh yes! But it infuriates me that I can’t get right, at the really growing part of me. I feel all tangled and messed up, and I _can’t_ get straight anyhow. I don’t know what really to _do_. One must do something somewhere.” “Why should you always be _doing?_” she retorted. “It is so plebeian. I think it is much better to be really patrician, and to do nothing but just be oneself, like a walking flower.” “I quite agree,” he said, “if one has burst into blossom. But I can’t get my flower to blossom anyhow. Either it is blighted in the bud, or has got the smother-fly, or it isn’t nourished. Curse it, it isn’t even a bud. It is a contravened knot.” Again she laughed. He was so very fretful and exasperated. But she was anxious and puzzled. How was one to get out, anyhow. There must be a way out somewhere. There was a silence, wherein she wanted to cry. She reached for another bit of chocolate paper, and began to fold another boat. “And why is it,” she asked at length, “that there is no flowering, no dignity of human life now?” “The whole idea is dead. Humanity itself is dry-rotten, really. There are myriads of human beings hanging on the bush—and they look very nice and rosy, your healthy young men and women. But they are apples of Sodom, as a matter of fact, Dead Sea Fruit, gall-apples. It isn’t true that they have any significance—their insides are full of bitter, corrupt ash.” “But there _are_ good people,” protested Ursula. “Good enough for the life of today. But mankind is a dead tree, covered with fine brilliant galls of people.” Ursula could not help stiffening herself against this, it was too picturesque and final. But neither could she help making him go on. “And if it is so, _why_ is it?” she asked, hostile. They were rousing each other to a fine passion of opposition. “Why, why are people all balls of bitter dust? Because they won’t fall off the tree when they’re ripe. They hang on to their old positions when the position is over-past, till they become infested with little worms and dry-rot.” There was a long pause. His voice had become hot and very sarcastic. Ursula was troubled and bewildered, they were both oblivious of everything but their own immersion. “But even if everybody is wrong—where are _you_ right?” she cried, “where are you any better?” “I?—I’m not right,” he cried back. “At least my only rightness lies in the fact that I know it. I detest what I am, outwardly. I loathe myself as a human being. Humanity is a huge aggregate lie, and a huge lie is less than a small truth. Humanity is less, far less than the individual, because the individual may sometimes be capable of truth, and humanity is a tree of lies. And they say that love is the greatest thing; they persist in _saying_ this, the foul liars, and just look at what they do! Look at all the millions of people who repeat every minute that love is the greatest, and charity is the greatest—and see what they are doing all the time. By their works ye shall know them, for dirty liars and cowards, who daren’t stand by their own actions, much less by their own words.” “But,” said Ursula sadly, “that doesn’t alter the fact that love is the greatest, does it? What they _do_ doesn’t alter the truth of what they say, does it?” “Completely, because if what they say _were_ true, then they couldn’t help fulfilling it. But they maintain a lie, and so they run amok at last. It’s a lie to say that love is the greatest. You might as well say that hate is the greatest, since the opposite of everything balances. What people want is hate—hate and nothing but hate. And in the name of righteousness and love, they get it. They distil themselves with nitroglycerine, all the lot of them, out of very love. It’s the lie that kills. If we want hate, let us have it—death, murder, torture, violent destruction—let us have it: but not in the name of love. But I abhor humanity, I wish it was swept away. It could go, and there would be no _absolute_ loss, if every human being perished tomorrow. The reality would be untouched. Nay, it would be better. The real tree of life would then be rid of the most ghastly, heavy crop of Dead Sea Fruit, the intolerable burden of myriad simulacra of people, an infinite weight of mortal lies.” “So you’d like everybody in the world destroyed?” said Ursula. “I should indeed.” “And the world empty of people?” “Yes truly. You yourself, don’t you find it a beautiful clean thought, a world empty of people, just uninterrupted grass, and a hare sitting up?” The pleasant sincerity of his voice made Ursula pause to consider her own proposition. And really it _was_ attractive: a clean, lovely, humanless world. It was the _really_ desirable. Her heart hesitated, and exulted. But still, she was dissatisfied with _him_. “But,” she objected, “you’d be dead yourself, so what good would it do you?” “I would die like a shot, to know that the earth would really be cleaned of all the people. It is the most beautiful and freeing thought. Then there would _never_ be another foul humanity created, for a universal defilement.” “No,” said Ursula, “there would be nothing.” “What! Nothing? Just because humanity was wiped out? You flatter yourself. There’d be everything.” “But how, if there were no people?” “Do you think that creation depends on _man!_ It merely doesn’t. There are the trees and the grass and birds. I much prefer to think of the lark rising up in the morning upon a humanless world. Man is a mistake, he must go. There is the grass, and hares and adders, and the unseen hosts, actual angels that go about freely when a dirty humanity doesn’t interrupt them—and good pure-tissued demons: very nice.” It pleased Ursula, what he said, pleased her very much, as a phantasy. Of course it was only a pleasant fancy. She herself knew too well the actuality of humanity, its hideous actuality. She knew it could not disappear so cleanly and conveniently. It had a long way to go yet, a long and hideous way. Her subtle, feminine, demoniacal soul knew it well. “If only man was swept off the face of the earth, creation would go on so marvellously, with a new start, non-human. Man is one of the mistakes of creation—like the ichthyosauri. If only he were gone again, think what lovely things would come out of the liberated days;—things straight out of the fire.” “But man will never be gone,” she said, with insidious, diabolical knowledge of the horrors of persistence. “The world will go with him.” “Ah