without any before and after, dispensed with all illusion. He did not deceive himself in the last issue. In the last issue he cared about nothing, he was troubled about nothing, he made not the slightest attempt to be at one with anything. He existed a pure, unconnected will, stoical and momentaneous. There was only his work. It was curious too, how his poverty, the degradation of his earlier life, attracted her. There was something insipid and tasteless to her, in the idea of a gentleman, a man who had gone the usual course through school and university. A certain violent sympathy, however, came up in her for this mud-child. He seemed to be the very stuff of the underworld of life. There was no going beyond him. Ursula too was attracted by Loerke. In both sisters he commanded a certain homage. But there were moments when to Ursula he seemed indescribably inferior, false, a vulgarism. Both Birkin and Gerald disliked him, Gerald ignoring him with some contempt, Birkin exasperated. “What do the women find so impressive in that little brat?” Gerald asked. “God alone knows,” replied Birkin, “unless it’s some sort of appeal he makes to them, which flatters them and has such a power over them.” Gerald looked up in surprise. “_Does_ he make an appeal to them?” he asked. “Oh yes,” replied Birkin. “He is the perfectly subjected being, existing almost like a criminal. And the women rush towards that, like a current of air towards a vacuum.” “Funny they should rush to that,” said Gerald. “Makes one mad, too,” said Birkin. “But he has the fascination of pity and repulsion for them, a little obscene monster of the darkness that he is.” Gerald stood still, suspended in thought. “What _do_ women want, at the bottom?” he asked. Birkin shrugged his shoulders. “God knows,” he said. “Some satisfaction in basic repulsion, it seems to me. They seem to creep down some ghastly tunnel of darkness, and will never be satisfied till they’ve come to the end.” Gerald looked out into the mist of fine snow that was blowing by. Everywhere was blind today, horribly blind. “And what is the end?” he asked. Birkin shook his head. “I’ve not got there yet, so I don’t know. Ask Loerke, he’s pretty near. He is a good many stages further than either you or I can go.” “Yes, but stages further in what?” cried Gerald, irritated. Birkin sighed, and gathered his brows into a knot of anger. “Stages further in social hatred,” he said. “He lives like a rat, in the river of corruption, just where it falls over into the bottomless pit. He’s further on than we are. He hates the ideal more acutely. He _hates_ the ideal utterly, yet it still dominates him. I expect he is a Jew—or part Jewish.” “Probably,” said Gerald. “He is a gnawing little negation, gnawing at the roots of life.” “But why does anybody care about him?” cried Gerald. “Because they hate the ideal also, in their souls. They want to explore the sewers, and he’s the wizard rat that swims ahead.” Still Gerald stood and stared at the blind haze of snow outside. “I don’t understand your terms, really,” he said, in a flat, doomed voice. “But it sounds a rum sort of desire.” “I suppose we want the same,” said Birkin. “Only we want to take a quick jump downwards, in a sort of ecstasy—and he ebbs with the stream, the sewer stream.” Meanwhile Gudrun and Ursula waited for the next opportunity to talk to Loerke. It was no use beginning when the men were there. Then they could get into no touch with the isolated little sculptor. He had to be alone with them. And he preferred Ursula to be there, as a sort of transmitter to Gudrun. “Do you do nothing but architectural sculpture?” Gudrun asked him one evening. “Not now,” he replied. “I have done all sorts—except portraits—I never did portraits. But other things—” “What kind of things?” asked Gudrun. He paused a moment, then rose, and went out of the room. He returned almost immediately with a little roll of paper, which he handed to her. She unrolled it. It was a photogravure reproduction of a statuette, signed F. Loerke. “That is quite an early thing—_not_ mechanical,” he said, “more popular.” The statuette was of a naked girl, small, finely made, sitting on a great naked horse. The girl was young and tender, a mere bud. She was sitting sideways on the horse, her face in her hands, as if in shame and grief, in a little abandon. Her hair, which was short and must be flaxen, fell forward, divided, half covering her hands. Her limbs were young and tender. Her legs, scarcely formed yet, the legs of a maiden just passing towards cruel womanhood, dangled childishly over the side of the powerful horse, pathetically, the small feet folded one over the other, as if to hide. But there was no hiding. There she was exposed naked on the naked flank of the horse. The horse stood stock still, stretched in a kind of start. It was a massive, magnificent stallion, rigid with pent-up power. Its neck was arched and terrible, like a sickle, its flanks were pressed back, rigid with power. Gudrun went pale, and a darkness came over her eyes, like shame, she looked up with a certain supplication, almost slave-like. He glanced at her, and jerked his head a little. “How big is it?” she asked, in a toneless voice, persisting in appearing casual and unaffected. “How big?” he replied, glancing again at her. “Without pedestal—so high—” he measured with his hand—“with pedestal, so—” He looked at her steadily. There was a little brusque, turgid contempt for her in his swift gesture, and she seemed to cringe a little. “And what is it done in?” she asked, throwing back her head and looking at him with affected coldness. He still gazed at her steadily, and his dominance was not shaken. “Bronze—green bronze.” “Green bronze!” repeated Gudrun, coldly accepting his challenge. She was thinking of the slender, immature, tender limbs of the girl, smooth and cold in green bronze. “Yes, beautiful,” she murmured, looking up at him with a certain dark homage. He closed his eyes and looked aside, triumphant. “Why,” said Ursula, “did you make the horse so stiff? It is as stiff as a block.” “Stiff?” he repeated, in arms at once. “Yes. _Look_ how stock and stupid and brutal it is. Horses are sensitive, quite delicate and sensitive, really.” He raised his shoulders, spread his hands in a shrug of slow indifference, as much as to inform her she was an amateur and an impertinent nobody. “_Wissen Sie_,” he said, with an insulting patience and condescension in his voice, “that horse is a certain _form_, part of a whole form. It is part of a work of art, a piece of form. It is not a picture of a friendly horse to which you give a lump of sugar, do you see—it is part of a work of art, it has no relation to anything outside that work of art.” Ursula, angry at being treated quite so insultingly _de haut en bas_, from the height of esoteric art to the depth of general exoteric amateurism, replied, hotly, flushing and lifting her face. “But it _is_ a picture of a horse, nevertheless.” He lifted his shoulders in another shrug. “As you like—it is not a picture of a cow, certainly.” Here Gudrun broke in, flushed and brilliant, anxious to avoid any more of this, any more of Ursula’s foolish persistence in giving herself away. “What do you mean by ‘it is a picture of a horse?’” she cried at her sister. “What do you mean by a horse? You mean an idea you have in _your_ head, and which you want to see represented. There is another idea altogether, quite another idea. Call it a horse if you like, or say it is not a horse. I have just as much right to say that _your_ horse isn’t a horse, that it is a falsity of your own make-up.” Ursula wavered, baffled. Then her words came. “But why does he have this idea of a horse?” she said. “I know it is his idea. I know it is a picture of himself, really—” Loerke snorted with rage. “A picture of myself!” he repeated, in derision. “_Wissen sie, gnädige Frau_, that is a _Kunstwerk_, a work of art. It is a work of art, it is a picture of nothing, of absolutely nothing. It has nothing to do with anything but itself, it has no relation with the everyday world of this and other, there is no connection between them, absolutely none, they are two different and distinct planes of existence, and to translate one into the other is worse than foolish, it is a darkening of all counsel, a making confusion everywhere.