withdraw the telegram, he’d go after all. “Ready?” asked Mrs. Viveash, coming up from the other end of the counter where she had been buying stamps. Gumbril pushed a florin under the bars. “A little indisposed,” he said, hooting with laughter, and he walked towards the door leaning heavily on his stick and limping. “Slight accident,” he explained. “What is the meaning of this clownery?” Mrs. Viveash inquired. “What indeed?” Gumbril had limped up to the door and stood there, holding it open for her. He was taking no responsibility for himself. It was the clown’s doing, and the clown, poor creature, was _non compos_, not entirely there, and couldn’t be called to account for his actions. He limped after her towards Piccadilly. “_Giudicato guarabile in cinque giorni_,” Mrs. Viveash laughed. “How charming that always is in the Italian papers. The fickle lady, the jealous lover, the stab, the _colpo di rivoltella_, the mere Anglo-Saxon black eye—all judged by the house surgeon at the Misericordia curable in five days. And you, my poor Gumbril, are you curable in five days?” “That depends,” said Gumbril. “There may be complications.” Mrs. Viveash waved her parasol; a taxi came swerving to the pavement’s edge in front of them. “Meanwhile,” she said, “you can’t be expected to walk.” At Verrey’s they lunched off lobsters and white wine. “Fish suppers,” Gumbril quoted jovially from the Restoration, “fish suppers will make a man hop like a flea.” Through the whole meal he clowned away in the most inimitable style. The ghost of a governess cart rolled along the twiddly lanes of Robertsbridge. But one can refuse to accept responsibility; a clown cannot be held accountable. And besides, when the future and the past are abolished, when it is only the present instant, whether enchanted or unenchanted, that counts, when there are no causes or motives, no future consequences to be considered, how can there be responsibility, even for those who are not clowns? He drank a great deal of hock, and when the clock struck two and the train had begun to snort out of Charing Cross, he could not refrain from proposing the health of Viscount Lascelles. After that he began telling Mrs. Viveash about his adventure as a Complete Man. “You should have seen me,” he said, describing his beard. “I should have been bowled over.” “You shall see me, then,” said Gumbril. “Ah, what a Don Giovanni. _La ci darem la mano, La mi dirai di si, Vieni, non e lontano, Partiam, ben mio, da qui._ And they came, they came. Without hesitation. No ‘_vorrei e non vorrei_,’ no ‘_mi trema un poco il cor_.’ Straight away.” “_Felice, io so, sarei_,” Mrs. Viveash sang very faintly under her breath, from a remote bed of agony. Ah, happiness, happiness; a little dull, some one had wisely said, when you looked at it from outside. An affair of duets at the cottage piano, of collecting specimens, hand in hand, for the _hortus siccus_. A matter of integrity and quietness. “Ah, but the history of the young woman who was married four years ago,” exclaimed Gumbril with clownish rapture, “and remains to this day a virgin—what an episode in my memoirs!” In the enchanted darkness he had learned her young body. He looked at his fingers; her beauty was a part of their knowledge. On the tablecloth he drummed out the first bars of the Twelfth Sonata of Mozart. “And even after singing her duet with the Don,” he continued, “she is still virgin. There are chaste pleasures, sublimated sensualities. More thrillingly voluptuous,” with the gesture of a restaurant-keeper who praises the speciality of the house, he blew a treacly kiss, “than any of the grosser deliriums.” “What is all this about?” asked Mrs. Viveash. Gumbril finished off his glass. “I am talking esoterically,” he said, “for my own pleasure, not yours.” “But tell me more about the beard,” Mrs. Viveash insisted. “I liked the beard so much.” “All right,” said Gumbril, “let us try to be unworthy with coherence.” They sat for a long time over their cigarettes; it was half past three before Mrs. Viveash suggested they should go. “Almost time,” she said, looking at her watch, “to have tea. One damned meal after another. And never anything new to eat. And every year one gets bored with another of the old things. Lobster, for instance, how I used to adore lobster once! But to-day—well, really, it was only your conversation, Theodore, that made it tolerable.” Gumbril put his hand to his heart and bowed. He felt suddenly extremely depressed. “And wine: I used to think Orvieto so heavenly. But this spring, when I went to Italy, it was just a bad muddy sort of Vouvray. And those soft caramels they call Fiats; I used to eat those till I was sick. I was at the sick stage before I’d finished one of them, this time in Rome.” Mrs. Viveash shook her head. “Disillusion after disillusion.” They walked down the dark passage into the street. “We’ll go home,” said Mrs. Viveash. “I really haven’t the spirit to do anything else this afternoon.” To the commissionaire who opened the door of the cab she gave the address of her house in St. James’s. “Will one ever recapture the old thrills?” she asked rather fatiguedly as they drove slowly through the traffic of Regent Street. “Not by chasing after them,” said Gumbril, in whom the clown had quite evaporated. “If one sat still enough they might perhaps come back of their own accord....” There would be the faint sound as it were of feet approaching through the quiet. “It isn’t only food,” said Mrs. Viveash, who had closed her eyes and was leaning back in her corner. “So I can well believe.” “It’s everything. Nothing’s the same now. I feel it never will be.” “Never more,” croaked Gumbril. “Never again,” Mrs. Viveash echoed. “Never again.” There were still no tears behind her eyes. “Did you ever know Tony Lamb?” she asked. “No,” Gumbril answered from his corner. “What about him?” Mrs. Viveash did not answer. What, indeed, about him? She thought of his very clear blue eyes and the fair, bright hair that had been lighter than his brown face. Brown face and neck, red-brown hands; and all the rest of his skin was as white as milk. “I was very fond of him,” she said at last. “That’s all. He was killed in 1917, just about this time of the year. It seems a very long time ago, don’t you think?” “Does it?” Gumbril shrugged his shoulders. “I don’t know. The past is abolished. _Vivamus, mea Lesbia._ If I weren’t so horribly depressed, I’d embrace you. That would be some slight compensation for my”—he tapped his foot with the end of his walking-stick—“my accident.” “You’re depressed too?” “One should never drink at luncheon,” said Gumbril. “It wrecks the afternoon. One should also never think of the past and never for one moment consider the future. These are treasures of ancient wisdom. But perhaps after a little tea——” He leaned forward to look at the figures on the taximeter, for the cab had come to a standstill—“after a nip of the tannin stimulant”—he threw open the door—“we may feel rather better.” Mrs. Viveash smiled excruciatingly. “For me,” she said, as she stepped out on to the pavement, “even tannin has lost its virtues now.” Mrs. Viveash’s drawing-room was tastefully in the movement. The furniture was upholstered in fabrics designed by Dufy—racehorses and roses, little tennis players clustering in the midst of enormous flowers, printed in grey and ochre on a white ground. There were a couple of lamp-shades by Balla. On the pale rose-stippled walls hung three portraits of herself by three different and entirely incongruous painters, a selection of the usual oranges and lemons, and a rather forbidding contemporary nude painted in two tones of green. “And how bored I am with this room and all these beastly pictures!” exclaimed Mrs. Viveash as she entered. She took off her hat and, standing in front of the mirror above the mantelpiece, smoothed her coppery hair. “You should take a cottage in the country,” said Gumbril, “buy a pony and a governess cart and drive along the twiddly lanes looking for flowers. After tea you open the cottage piano,” and suiting his action to the words, Gumbril sat down at the long-tailed Blüthner, “and you play, you play.” Very slowly and with parodied expressiveness he played the opening theme of the Arietta. “You wouldn’t be bored then,” he said, turning round to her, when he had finished. “Ah, wouldn’t I!” said Mrs. Viveash. “And with whom do you propose that I should share my cottage?” “Any one you like,” said Gumbril. His fingers hung, as though meditating over the keys. “But I don’t like any one,” cried Mrs. Viveash with a terrible vehemence from her death-bed.... Ah, now it had been said, the truth. It sounded like