life. She supposed it was true: Guy's enforced absences were a pain to her, and the difficulties of housekeeping continually increased and multiplied. Mr. Petherton took a more intelligent interest in the war than did his daughter. He prided himself on being able to see the thing as a whole, on taking an historical, God's-eye view of it all. He talked about it at meal-times, insisting that the world must be made safe for democracy. Between meals he sat in the library working at his monumental History of Morals. To his dinner-table disquisitions Marjorie would listen more or less attentively, Jacobsen with an unfailing, bright, intelligent politeness. Jacobsen himself rarely volunteered a remark about the war; it was taken for granted that he thought about it in the same way as all other right-thinking folk. Between meals he worked in his room or discussed the morals of the Italian Renaissance with his host. Marjorie could write to Guy that nothing was happening, and that but for his absence and the weather interfering so much with tennis, she would be perfectly happy. Into the midst of this placidity there fell, delightful bolt from the blue, the announcement that Guy was getting leave at the end of July. "DARLING," Marjorie wrote, "I am so excited to think that you will be with me in such a little--such a long, long time." Indeed, she was so excited and delighted that she realized with a touch of remorse how comparatively little she had thought of him when there seemed no chance of seeing him, how dim a figure in absence he was. A week later she heard that George White had arranged to get leave at the same time so as to see Guy. She was glad; George was a charming boy, and Guy was so fond of him. The Whites were their nearest neighbours, and ever since Guy had come to live at Blaybury he had seen a great deal of young George. "We shall be a most festive party," said Mr. Petherton. "Roger will be coming to us just at the same time as Guy." "I'd quite forgotten Uncle Roger," said Marjorie. "Of course, his holidays begin then, don't they?" The Reverend Roger was Alfred Petherton's brother and a master at one of our most glorious public schools. Marjorie hardly agreed with her father in thinking that his presence would add anything to the "festiveness" of the party. It was a pity he should be coming at this particular moment. However, we all have our little cross to bear. Mr. Petherton was feeling playful. "We must bring down," he said, "the choicest Falernian, bottled when Gladstone was consul, for the occasion. We must prepare wreaths and unguents and hire a flute player and a couple of dancing girls . . ." He spent the rest of the meal in quoting Horace, Catullus, the Greek Anthology, Petronius, and Sidonius Apollinarius. Marjorie's knowledge of the dead languages was decidedly limited. Her thoughts were elsewhere, and it was only dimly and as it were through a mist that she heard her father murmuring--whether merely to himself or with the hope of eliciting an answer from somebody, she hardly knew--"Let me see: how does that epigram go?--that one about the different kinds of fish and the garlands of roses, by Meleager, or is it Poseidippus? . . ." II GUY and Jacobsen were walking in the Dutch garden, an incongruous couple. On Guy military servitude had left no outwardly visible mark; out of uniform, he still looked like a tall, untidy undergraduate; he stooped and drooped as much as ever; his hair was still bushy and, to judge by the dim expression of his face, he had not yet learnt to think imperially. His khaki always looked like a disguise, like the most absurd fancy dress. Jacobsen trotted beside him, short, fattish, very sleek, and correct. They talked in a desultory way about things indifferent. Guy, anxious for a little intellectual exercise after so many months of discipline, had been trying to inveigle his companion into a philosophical discussion. Jacobsen consistently eluded his efforts; he was too lazy to talk seriously; there was no profit that he could see to be got out of this young man's opinions, and he had not the faintest desire to make a disciple. He preferred, therefore, to discuss the war and the weather. It irritated him that people should want to trespass on the domain of thought--people who had no right to live anywhere but on the vegetative plane of mere existence. He wished they would simply be content to _be_ or _do_, not try, so hopelessly, to think, when only one in a million can think with the least profit to himself or anyone else. Out of the corner of his eye he looked at the dark, sensitive face of his companion; he ought to have gone into business at eighteen, was Jacobsen's verdict. It was bad for him to think; he wasn't strong enough. A great sound of barking broke upon the calm of the garden. Looking up, the two strollers saw George White running across the green turf of the croquet lawn with a huge fawn-coloured dog bounding along at his side. "Morning," he shouted. He was hatless and out of breath. "I was taking Bella for a run, and thought I'd look in and see how you all were." "What a lovely dog!" Jacobsen exclaimed. "An old English mastiff our--one aboriginal dog. She has a pedigree going straight back to Edward the Confessor." Jacobsen began a lively conversation with George on the virtues and shortcomings of dogs. Bella smelt his calves and then lifted up her gentle black eyes to look at him. She seemed satisfied. He looked at them for a little; they were too much absorbed in their doggy conversation to pay attention to him. He made a gesture as though he had suddenly remembered something, gave a little grunt, and with a very preoccupied expression on his face turned to go towards the house. His elaborate piece of by-play escaped the notice of the intended spectators; Guy saw that it had, and felt more miserable and angry and jealous than ever. They would think he had slunk off because he wasn't wanted--which was quite true--instead of believing that he had something very important to do, which was what he had intended they should believe. A cloud of self-doubt settled upon him. Was his mind, after all, worthless, and the little things he had written--rubbish, not potential genius as he had hoped? Jacobsen was right in preferring George's company. George was perfect, physically, a splendid creature; what could he himself claim? "I'm second-rate," he thought--"second-rate, physically, morally, mentally. Jacobsen is quite right." The best he could hope to be was a pedestrian literary man with quiet tastes. NO, no, no! He clenched his hands and, as though to register his resolve before the universe, he said, aloud: "I will do it; I will be first-rate, I will." He was covered with confusion on seeing a gardener pop up, surprised from behind a bank of rose-bushes. Talking to himself--the man must have thought him mad! He hurried on across the lawn, entered the house, and ran upstairs to his room. There was not a second to lose; he must begin at once. He would write something--something that would last, solid, hard, shining. . . . "Damn them all! I will do it, I can . . ." There were writing materials and a table in his room. He selected a pen--with a Relief nib he would be able to go on for hours without getting tired--and a large square sheet of writing-paper. "HATCH HOUSE, BLAYBURY, WILTS. Station: Cogham, 3 miles; Nobes Monacorum, 4½ miles." Stupid of people to have their stationery printed in red, when black or blue is so much nicer! He inked over the letters. He held up the paper to the light; there was a watermark, "Pimlico Bond." What an admirable name for the hero of a novel! Pimlico Bond. . . . "There's be-eef in the la-arder And du-ucks in the pond; Crying dilly dilly, dilly dilly . . ." He bit the end of his pen. "What I want to get," he said to himself, "is something very hard, very external. Intense emotion, but one will somehow have got outside it." He made a movement of hands, arms, and shoulders, tightening his muscles in an effort to express to himself physically that hardness and tightness and firmness of style after which he was struggling! He began to draw on his virgin paper. A woman, naked, one arm lifted over her head, so that it pulled up her breast by that wonderful curving muscle that comes down from the shoulder. The inner surface of the thighs, remember, is slightly concave. The feet, seen from the front, are always a difficulty. It would never do to leave that about. What would the