literary man, has been kind enough to take an interest in my work. His criticism will be the greatest help to me. BELLE. Of course it will, and he has such charming eyes. (_A pause. The music, which has, all this while, been faintly heard through the ball-room door, becomes more audible. They are playing a rich, creamy waltz._) What delicious music! Henrika, come and have a dance. (_She seizes HENRIKA round the waist and begins to waltz. HENRIKA is reluctant at first, but little by little the rhythm of the dance takes possession of her till, with her half-closed eyes and languorous, trance-like movements, she might figure as the visible living symbol of the waltz. ASTON and TOPSY lean back in their seats, marking the time with a languid beating of the hand. CAIN sways and swoons and revolves in his own peculiar and inimitable version of the dance._) SIR JASPER. (_Who has been watching the whole scene with amusement._) What a pretty spectacle! "Music hath charms. . . ." HENRIKA. (_In an almost extinct voice._) Oh, Belle, Belle, I could go on dancing like this for ever. I feel quite intoxicated with it. TOPSY. (_To ASTON._) What a jolly tune this is! ASTON. Isn't it? It's called "Dreams of Desire," I believe. BELLE. What a pretty name! TOPSY. These are wonderful flowers here. ASTON. Let's go and have a look at them. (_They get up and walk round the conservatory. The flowers light up as they pass; in the midst of each is a small electric globe._) ASTON. This purple one with eyes is the assafoetida flower. Don't put your nose too near; it has a smell like burning flesh. This is a Cypripedium from Sumatra. It is the only man-eating flower in the world. Notice its double set of teeth. (_He puts a stick into the mouth of the flower, which instantly snaps to, like a steel trap._) Nasty, vicious brute! These blossoms like purple sponges belong to the twangum tree; when you squeeze them they ooze blood. This is the Jonesia, the octopus of the floral world: each of its eight tentacles is armed with a sting capable of killing a horse. Now this is a most interesting and instructive flower--the patchouli bloom. It is perhaps the most striking example in nature of structural specialization brought about by Evolution. If only Darwin had lived to see the patchouli plant! You have heard of flowers specially adapting themselves to be fertilized by bees or butterflies or spiders and such-like? Well, this plant which grows in the forests of Guatemala can only be fertilized by English explorers. Observe the structure of the flower; at the base is a flat, projecting pan, containing the pistil; above it an overarching tube ending in a spout. On either side a small crevice about three-quarters of an inch in length may be discerned in the fleshy lobes of the calix. The English traveller seeing this plant is immediately struck by its resemblance to those penny-in-the-slot machines which provide scent for the public in the railway stations at home. Through sheer force of habit he takes a penny from his pocket and inserts it in one of the crevices or slots. Immediate result--a jet of highly scented liquid pollen is discharged from the spout upon the pistil lying below, and the plant is fertilized. Could anything be more miraculous? And yet there are those who deny the existence of God. Poor fools! TOPSY. Wonderful! (_Sniffing._) What a good scent. ASTON. The purest patchouli. BELLE. How delicious! Oh, my dear . . . (_She shuts her eyes in ecstasy._) HENRIKA. (_Drowsily._) Delicious, 'licious. . . . SIR JASPER. I always like these rather _canaille_ perfumes. Their effect is admirable. ASTON. This is the leopard-flower. Observe its spotted skin and its thorns like agate claws. This is the singing Alocusia--Alocusia Cantatrix--discovered by Humboldt during his second voyage to the Amazons. If you stroke its throat in the right place, it will begin to sing like a nightingale. Allow me. (_He takes her by the wrist and guides her fingers towards the palpitating throat of a gigantic flower shaped like a gramophone trumpet. The Alocusia bursts into song; it has a voice like Caruso's._) CAIN. Oh, nyum nyum! What a hand! Oh, ma honey. (_He runs a thick black finger along TOPSY'S arm._) TOPSY. What a remarkable flower! BELLE. I wonder whether he stroked my arm like that by accident or on purpose. HENRIKA. (_Gives a little shiver._) He's touching me, he's touching me! But somehow I feel so sleepy I can't move. TOPSY. (_She moves on towards the next flower: BELLE does not allow her to disengage her hand at once._) What a curious smell this one has! ASTON. Be careful, be careful! That's the chloroform plant. TOPSY. Oh, I feel quite dizzy and faint. That smell and the heat . . . (_She almost falls: ASTON puts out his arm and holds her up._) ASTON. Poor child! CAIN. Poh chile, poh chile! (_He hovers round her, his hands almost touching her, trembling with excitement: his white eyeballs roll horribly._) ASTON. I'll open the door. The air will make you feel better. (_He opens the conservatory door, still supporting TOPSY with his right arm. The wind is heard, fearfully whistling: a flurry of snow blows into the conservatory. The flowers utter piercing screams of rage and fear; their lights flicker wildly; several turn perfectly black and drop on to the floor writhing in agony. The floral octopus agitates its tentacles; the twangum blooms drip blood; all the leaves of all the trees clap together with a dry, scaly sound._) TOPSY. (_Faintly._) Thank you; that's better. ASTON. (_Closing the door._) Poor child! Come and sit down again; the chloroform flower is a real danger. (_Much moved, he leads her back towards the seat._) CAIN. (_Executes a war dance round the seated couple._) Poh chile, poh chile! Nyum nyum nyum. SIR JASPER. One perceives the well-known dangers of playing the Good Samaritan towards an afflicted member of the opposite sex. Pity has touched even our good Cain to tears. BELLE. Oh, I wonder what's going to happen! It's so exciting. I'm so glad Henrika's gone to sleep. TOPSY. It was silly of me to go all faint like that. ASTON. I ought to have warned you in time of the chloroform flower. BELLE. But it's such a lovely feeling now--like being in a very hot bath with lots of verbena bath-salts, and hardly able to move with limpness, but just ever so comfortable and happy. ASTON. How do you feel now? I'm afraid you're looking very pale. Poor child! CAIN. Poh chile, poh chile! . . . SIR JASPER. I don't know much about these things, but it seems to me, my dear Aston, that the moment has decidedly arrived. ASTON. I'm so sorry. You poor little thing . . . (_He kisses her very gently on the forehead._) BELLE. A--a--h. HENRIKA. Oh! He kissed me: but he's so kind and good, so kind and good. (_She stirs and falls back again into her drowsy trance._) CAIN. Poh chile, poh chile! (_He leans over ASTON'S shoulder and begins rudely kissing TOPSY'S trance-calm, parted lips. TOPSY opens her eyes and sees the black, greasy face, the chryselephantine smile, the pink, thick lips, the goggling eyeballs of white enamel. She screams. HENRIKA springs up and screams too. TOPSY slips on to the floor, and CAIN and ASTON are left face to face with HENRIKA, pale as death and with wide-open, terrified eyes. She is trembling in every limb._) ASTON. (_Gives CAIN a push that sends him sprawling backwards, and falls on his knees before the pathetic figure of HENRIKA._) Oh, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry. What a beast I am! I don't know what I can have been thinking of to do such a thing. SIR JASPER. My dear boy, I'm afraid you and Cain knew only too well what you were thinking of. Only too well . . . ASTON. Will you forgive me? I can't forgive myself. HENRIKA. Oh, you hurt me, you frightened me so much. I can't bear it. (_She cries._) ASTON. O God! O God! (_The tears start into his eyes also. He takes HENRIKA'S hand and begins to kiss it._) I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry. SIR JASPER. If you're not very careful, Aston, you'll have Cain to deal with again. (_CAIN has picked himself up and is creeping stealthily towards the couple in the centre of the conservatory._) ASTON. (_Turning round._) Cain, you brute, go to hell! (_CAIN slinks back._) Oh, will you forgive me for having been such a swine? What can I do? TOPSY. (_Who has recovered her self-possession, rises to her feet and pushes HENRIKA into the background._) Thank you, it is really quite all right. I think it would be best to say no more about it, to forget what has happened. ASTON. Will you forgive me,