time and none to waste." He drew her into the shadow under the bulwark, and, sitting down on a coil of rope, crushed her body to his own and began kissing her with fury. She lay, at first, limp in his arms, but gradually she kindled to his passion. A plash of oars announced the approach of the boat. The captain hallooed into the darkness: "Did you find him?" "Yes, we have him here," came back the answer. "Good. Bring him alongside and we'll hoist him up. We have the bier in readiness. He shall lie in state to-night." "But he's not dead," shouted back the voice from the night. "Not dead?" repeated the captain, thunderstruck. "But what about the bier, then?" A thin, feeble voice came back. "Your work will not be wasted, my friend. It will be but a short time before I need your bier." The captain, a little abashed, answered in a gentler tone, "We thought, holy father, that the heathens had done their worst and that Almighty God had already given you the martyr's crown." By this time the boat had emerged from the darkness. In the stern sheets an old man was lying, his white hair and beard stained with blood, his Dominican's robe torn and fouled with dust. At the sight of him, the captain pulled off his cap and dropped upon his knees. "Give us your blessing, holy father," he begged. The old man raised his hand and wished him peace. They lifted him on board and, at his own desire, laid him upon the bier which had been prepared for his dead body. "It would be a waste of trouble," he said, "to put me anywhere else, seeing I shall in any case be lying there so soon." So there he lay, very still under the four candles. One might have taken him for dead already, but that his eyes, when he opened them, shone so brightly. He dismissed from the poop everyone except the young Spaniard. "We are countrymen," he said, "and of noble blood, both of us. I would rather have you near me than anyone else." The sailors knelt for a blessing and disappeared; soon they could be heard weighing the anchor; it was safest to be off before day. Like mourners at either side of the lighted bier crouched the Spaniard and his mistress. The body of the old man, who was not yet dead, lay quiet under the candles. The martyr was silent for some time, but at last he opened his eyes and looked at the young man and the woman. "I too," he said, "was in love, once. In this year falls the jubilee of my last earthly passion; fifty years have run since last I longed after the flesh--fifty years since God opened my eyes to the hideousness of the corruption that man has brought upon himself. "You are young, and your bodies are clean and straight, with no blotch or ulcer or leprous taint to mar their much-desired beauty; but because of your outward pride, your souls, it may be, fester inwardly the more. "And yet God made all perfect; it is but accident and the evil of will that causes defaults. All metals should be gold, were it not that their elements willed evilly in their desire to combine. And so with men: the burning sulphur of passion, the salt of wisdom, the nimble mercurial soul should come together to make a golden being, incorruptible and rustless. But the elements mingle jarringly, not in a pure harmony of love, and gold is rare, while lead and iron and poisonous brass that leaves a taste as of remorse behind it are everywhere common. "God opened my eyes to it before my youth had too utterly wasted itself to rottenness. It was half a hundred years ago, but I see her still, my Ambrosia, with her white, sad face and her naked body and that monstrous ill eating away at her breast. "I have lived since then trying to amend the evil, trying to restore, as far as my poor powers would go, some measure of original perfection to the corrupted world. I have striven to give to all metals their true nature, to make true gold from the false, the unreal, the accidental metals, lead and copper and tin and iron. And I have essayed that more difficult alchemy, the transformation of men. I die now in my effort to purge away that most foul dross of misbelief from the souls of these heathen men. Have I achieved anything? I know not." The galley was moving now, its head turned seaward. The candles shivered in the wind of its speed, casting uncertain, changing shadows upon his face. There was a long silence on the poop. The oars creaked and splashed. Sometimes a shout would come up from below, orders given by the overseer of the slaves, a curse, the sound of a blow. The old man spoke again, more weakly now, as though to himself. "I have had eighty years of it," he said--"eighty years in the midst of this corroding sea of hatred and strife. A man has need to keep pure and unalloyed his core of gold, that little centre of perfection with which all, even in this declination of time, are born. All other metal, though it be as tough as steel, as shining-hard as brass, will melt before the devouring bitterness of life. Hatred, lust, anger--the vile passions will corrode your will of iron, the warlike pomp of your front of brass. It needs the golden perfection of pure love and pure knowledge to withstand them. "God has willed that I should be the stone--weak, indeed, in virtue--that has touched and transformed at least a little of baser metal into the gold that is above corruption. But it is hard work--thankless work. Man has made a hell of his world, and has set up gods of pain to rule it. Goatish gods, that revel and feast on the agony of it all, poring over the tortured world, like those hateful lovers, whose lust burns darkly into cruelty. "Fever goads us through life in a delirium of madness. Thirsting for the swamps of evil whence the fever came, thirsting for the mirages of his own delirium, man rushes headlong he knows not whither. And all the time a devouring cancer gnaws at his entrails. It will kill him in the end, when even the ghastly inspiration of fever will not be enough to whip him on. He will lie there, cumbering the earth, a heap of rottenness and pain, until at last the cleansing fire comes to sweep the horror away. "Fever and cancer; acids that burn and corrode. . . . I have had eighty years of it. Thank God, it is the end." It was already dawn; the candles were hardly visible now in the light, faded to nothing, like souls in prosperity. In a little while the old man was asleep. The captain tiptoed up on to the poop and drew the young Spaniard aside for a confidential talk. "Do you think he will die to-day?" he asked. The young man nodded. "God rest his soul," said the captain piously. "But do you think it would be best to take his body to Minorca or to Genoa? At Minorca they would give much to have their own patron martyr. At the same time it would add to the glory of Genoa to possess so holy a relic, though he is in no way connected with the place. It's there is my difficulty. Suppose, you see, that my people of Genoa did not want the body, he being from Minorca and not one of them. I should look a fool then, bringing it in in state. Oh, it's hard, it's hard. There's so much to think about. I am not sure but what I hadn't better put in at Minorca first. What do you think?" The Spaniard shrugged his shoulder. "I have no advice to offer." "Lord," said the captain as he bustled away, "life is a tangled knot to unravel." PRINTED BY MORRISON AND GIBB LTD., EDINBURGH Transcriber's Note This transcription is based on images scanned from a copy made available by the University of Toronto and posted by the Internet Archive at: archive.org/details/limbohux00huxluoft The following changes were noted: -- p. 70: "Let it start smouldering at once I must--Inserted period after "once". -- p. 196: Even make pretences to re ard--Changed "re ard" to "regard". -- p. 203: Eupompus' next picture, representing an orchard of identical trees--As this paragraph is a continuation of Emberlin's speech, an opening double quotation mark was inserted at the beginning of the paragraph. -- p. 243: How exciting it was, wasn't it, HENRIKA?--Changed "HENRIKA" from small caps to "Henrika".