to scratch it out. But no, she would leave it in spite of everything, just to see what he would think about it. She finished the letter quickly, sealed and stamped it, and rang for the maid to take it to the post. When the servant had gone, she shut up her desk with a bang. Bang--the letter had gone, irrevocably. She picked up a large book lying on the table and began to read. It was the first volume of the _Decline and Fall_. Guy had said she must read Gibbon; she wouldn't be educated till she had read Gibbon. And so yesterday she had gone to her father in his library to get the book. "Gibbon," Mr. Petherton had said, "certainly, my dear. How delightful it is to look at these grand old books again. One always finds something new every time." Marjorie gave him to understand that she had never read it. She felt rather proud of her ignorance. Mr. Petherton handed the first of eleven volumes to her. "A great book," he murmured--"an essential book. It fills the gap between your classical history and your mediæval stuff." "Your" classical history, Marjorie repeated to herself, "your" classical history indeed! Her father had an irritating way of taking it for granted that she knew everything, that classical history was as much hers as his. Only a day or two before he had turned to her at luncheon with, "Do you remember, dear child, whether it was Pomponazzi who denied the personal immortality of the soul, or else that queer fellow, Laurentius Valla? It's gone out of my head for the moment." Marjorie had quite lost her temper at the question--much to the innocent bewilderment of her poor father. She had set to work with energy on the Gibbon; her bookmarker registered the fact that she had got through one hundred and twenty-three pages yesterday. Marjorie started reading. After two pages she stopped. She looked at the number of pages still remaining to be read--and this was only the first volume. She felt like a wasp sitting down to eat a vegetable marrow. Gibbon's bulk was not perceptibly diminished by her first bite. It was too long. She shut the book and went out for a walk. Passing the Whites' house, she saw her friend, Beatrice White that was, sitting on the lawn with her two babies. Beatrice hailed her, and she turned in. "Pat a cake, pat a cake," she said. At the age of ten months, baby John had already learnt the art of patting cakes. He slapped the outstretched hand offered him, and his face, round and smooth and pink like an enormous peach, beamed with pleasure. "Isn't he a darling!" Marjorie exclaimed. "You know, I'm sure he's grown since last I saw him, which was on Tuesday." "He put on eleven ounces last week," Beatrice affirmed. "How wonderful! His hair's coming on splendidly . . ." * * * * * It was Sunday the next day. Jacobsen appeared at breakfast in the neatest of black suits. He looked, Marjorie thought, more than ever like a cashier. She longed to tell him to hurry up or he'd miss the 8.53 for the second time this week and the manager would be annoyed. Marjorie herself was, rather consciously, not in Sunday best. "What is the name of the Vicar?" Jacobsen inquired, as he helped himself to bacon. "Trubshaw. Luke Trubshaw, I believe." "Does he preach well?" "He didn't when I used to hear him. But I don't often go to church now, so I don't know what he's like these days." "Why don't you go to church?" Jacobsen inquired, with a silkiness of tone which veiled the crude outlines of his leading question. Marjorie was painfully conscious of blushing. She was filled with rage against Jacobsen. "Because," she said firmly, "I don't think it necessary to give expression to my religious feelings by making a lot of"--she hesitated a moment--"a lot of meaningless gestures with a crowd of other people." "You used to go," said Jacobsen. "When I was a child and hadn't thought about these things." Jacobsen was silent, and concealed a smile in his coffee-cup. Really, he said to himself, there ought to be religious conscription for women--and for most men, too. It was grotesque the way these people thought they could stand by themselves--the fools, when there was the infinite authority of organized religion to support their ridiculous feebleness. "Does Lambourne go to church?" he asked maliciously, and with an air of perfect naïveté and good faith. Marjorie coloured again, and a fresh wave of hatred surged up within her. Even as she had said the words she had wondered whether Jacobsen would notice that the phrase "meaningless gestures" didn't ring very much like one of her own coinages. "Gesture"--that was one of Guy's words, like "incredible," "exacerbate," "impinge," "sinister." Of course all her present views about religion had come from Guy. She looked Jacobsen straight in the face and replied: "Yes, I think he goes to church pretty regularly. But I really don't know: his religion has nothing to do with me." Jacobsen was lost in delight and admiration. Punctually at twenty minutes to eleven he set out for church. From where she was sitting in the summer-house Marjorie watched him as he crossed the garden, incredibly absurd and incongruous in his black clothes among the blazing flowers and the young emerald of the trees. Now he was hidden behind the sweet-briar hedge, all except the hard black melon of his bowler hat, which she could see bobbing along between the topmost sprays. She went on with her letter to Guy. ". . . What a strange man Mr. Jacobsen is. I suppose he is very clever, but I can't get very much out of him. We had an argument about religion at breakfast this morning; I rather scored off him. He has now gone off to church all by himself;--I really couldn't face the prospect of going with him--I hope he'll enjoy old Mr. Trubshaw's preaching!" Jacobsen did enjoy Mr. Trubshaw's preaching enormously. He always made a point, in whatever part of Christendom he happened to be, of attending divine service. He had the greatest admiration of churches as institutions. In their solidity and unchangeableness he saw one of the few hopes for humanity. Further, he derived great pleasure from comparing the Church as an institution--splendid, powerful, eternal--with the childish imbecility of its representatives. How delightful it was to sit in the herded congregation and listen to the sincere outpourings of an intellect only a little less limited than that of an Australian aboriginal! How restful to feel oneself a member of a flock, guided by a good shepherd--himself a sheep! Then there was the scientific interest (he went to church as student of anthropology, as a Freudian psychologist) and the philosophic amusement of counting the undistributed middles and tabulating historically the exploded fallacies in the parson's discourse. To-day Mr. Trubshaw preached a topical sermon about the Irish situation. His was the gospel of the _Morning Post_, slightly tempered by Christianity. It was our duty, he said, to pray for the Irish first of all, and if that had no effect upon recruiting, why, then, we must conscribe them as zealously as we had prayed before. Jacobsen leaned back in his pew with a sigh of contentment. A connoisseur, he recognized that this was the right stuff. "Well," said Mr. Petherton over the Sunday beef at lunch, "how did you like our dear Vicar?" "He was splendid," said Jacobsen, with grave enthusiasm. "One of the best sermons I've ever heard." "Indeed? I shall really have to go and hear him again. It must be nearly ten years since I listened to him." "He's inimitable." Marjorie looked at Jacobsen carefully. He seemed to be perfectly serious. She was more than ever puzzled by the man. The days went slipping by, hot blue days that passed like a flash almost without one's noticing them, cold grey days, seeming interminable and without number, and about which one spoke with a sense of justified grievance, for the season was supposed to be summer. There was fighting going on in France--terrific battles, to judge from the headlines in the _Times_; but, after all, one day's paper was very much like another's. Marjorie read them dutifully, but didn't honestly take in very much; at least she forgot about things very soon. She couldn't keep count with the battles of Ypres, and when somebody told her that she ought to go and see the photographs of the _Vindictive_, she smiled vaguely and said Yes, without remembering precisely what the _Vindictive_ was--a ship, she supposed. Guy was in France, to be sure, but he was an Intelligence Officer now, so that she was hardly anxious about him at all. Clergymen used to say that the war was bringing us all back to a sense of the fundamental realities of