then? TOPSY. Of course, of course. Please get up, Mr. Tyrrell. ASTON. (_Climbing to his feet._) I can't think how I ever came to be such a brute. TOPSY. (_Coldly._) I thought we had agreed not to talk about this incident any further. (_There is a silence._) SIR JASPER. Well, Aston? This has been rather fun. BELLE. I wish you hadn't been quite so cold with him, Topsy. Poor man! He really is very sorry. One can see that. HENRIKA. But did you see that awful face? (_She shudders and covers her eyes._) ASTON. (_Picking up his dummy and manipulating it._) It is very hot in here, is it not? Shall we go back to the dancing-room? TOPSY. (_Also takes up her dummy._) Yes, let us go back. ASTON'S DUMMY. Isn't that "Roses in Picardy" that the band is playing? TOPSY'S DUMMY. I believe it is. What a very good band, don't you think? ASTON'S DUMMY. Yes; it plays during dinner, you know, at the Necropole. (_To JASPER._) Lord, what a fool I am! I'd quite forgotten; it was she who told me so as we came in. TOPSY'S DUMMY. At the Necropole? Really. ASTON'S DUMMY. A very good band and a very good floor. TOPSY'S DUMMY. Yes, it's a perfect floor, isn't it? Like glass. . . . (_They go out, followed by their respective families. BELLE supports HENRIKA, who is still very weak after her shock._) BELLE. How exciting it was, wasn't it, Henrika? HENRIKA. Wasn't it awful--too awful! Oh, that face. . . . (_CAIN follows ASTON out in silence and dejection. SIR JASPER brings up the rear of the procession. His face wears its usual expression of slightly bored amusement. He lights a cigarette._) SIR JASPER. Charming evening, charming evening. . . . Now it's over, I wonder whether it ever existed. (_He goes out. The conservatory is left empty. The flowers flash their luminous pistils; the eyes of the assafoetida blossoms solemnly wink; leaves shake and sway and rustle; several of the flowers are heard to utter a low chuckle, while the Alocusia, after whistling a few derisive notes, finally utters a loud, gross Oriental hiccough._) THE CURTAIN SLOWLY DESCENDS. CYNTHIA WHEN, some fifty years hence, my grandchildren ask me what I did when I was at Oxford in the remote days towards the beginning of our monstrous century, I shall look back across the widening gulf of time and tell them with perfect good faith that I never worked less than eight hours a day, that I took a keen interest in Social Service, and that coffee was the strongest stimulant in which I indulged. And they will very justly say--but I hope I shall be out of hearing. That is why I propose to write my memoirs as soon as possible, before I have had time to forget, so that having the truth before me I shall never in time to come be able, consciously or unconsciously, to tell lies about myself. At present I have no time to write a complete account of that decisive period in my history. I must content myself therefore with describing a single incident of my undergraduate days. I have selected this one because it is curious and at the same time wholly characteristic of Oxford life before the war. My friend Lykeham was an Exhibitioner at Swellfoot College. He combined blood (he was immensely proud of his Anglo-Saxon descent and the derivation of his name from Old English _lycam_, a corpse) with brains. His tastes were eccentric, his habits deplorable, the range of his information immense. As he is now dead, I will say no more about his character. To proceed with my anecdote: I had gone one evening, as was my custom, to visit him in his rooms at Swellfoot. It was just after nine when I mounted the stairs, and great Tom was still tolling. "In Thomae laude Resono bim bam sine fraude," as the charmingly imbecile motto used to run, and to-night he was living up to it by bim-bamming away in a persistent _basso profondo_ that made an astonishing background of discord to the sound of frantic guitar playing which emanated from Lykeham's room. From the fury of his twanging I could tell that something more than usually cataclysmic had happened, for mercifully it was only in moments of the greatest stress that Lykeham touched his guitar. I entered the room with my hands over my ears. "For God's sake----" I implored. Through the open window Tom was shouting a deep E flat, with a spread chord of under- and over-tones, while the guitar gibbered shrilly and hysterically in D natural. Lykeham laughed, banged down his guitar on to the sofa with such violence that it gave forth a trembling groan from all its strings, and ran forward to meet me. He slapped me on the shoulder with painful heartiness; his whole face radiated joy and excitement. I can sympathize with people's pains, but not with their pleasures. There is something curiously boring about somebody else's happiness. "You are perspiring," I said coldly. Lykeham mopped himself, but went grinning. "Well, what is it this time?" I asked. "Are you engaged to be married again?" Lykeham burst forth with the triumphant pleasure of one who has at last found an opportunity of disburdening himself of an oppressive secret. "Far better than that," he cried. I groaned. "Some more than usually unpleasant amour, I suppose." I knew that he had been in London the day before, a pressing engagement with the dentist having furnished an excuse to stay the night. "Don't be gross," said Lykeham, with a nervous laugh which showed that my suspicions had been only too well founded. "Well, let's hear about the delectable Flossie or Effie or whatever her name was," I said, with resignation. "I tell you she was a goddess." "The goddess of reason, I suppose." "A goddess," Lykeham continued; "the most wonderful creature I've ever seen. And the extraordinary thing is," he added confidentially, and with ill-suppressed pride, "that it seems I myself am a god of sorts." "Of gardens; but do come down to facts." "I'll tell you the whole story. It was like this: Last night I was in town, you know, and went to see that capital play that's running at the Prince Consort's. It's one of those ingenious combinations of melodrama and problem play, which thrill you to the marrow and at the same time give you a virtuous feeling that you've been to see something serious. Well, I rolled in rather late, having secured an admirable place in the front row of the dress circle. I trampled in over the populace, and casually observed that there was a girl sitting next me, whom I apologized to for treading on her toes. I thought no more about her during the first act. In the interval, when the lights were on again, I turned round to look at things in general and discovered that there was a goddess sitting next me. One only had to look at her to see she was a goddess. She was quite incredibly beautiful--rather pale and virginal and slim, and at the same time very stately. I can't describe her; she was simply perfect--there's nothing more to be said." "Perfect," I repeated, "but so were all the rest." "Fool!" Lykeham answered impatiently. "All the rest were just damned women. This was a goddess, I tell you. Don't interrupt me any more. As I was looking with astonishment at her profile, she turned her head and looked squarely at me. I've never seen anything so lovely; I almost swooned away. Our eyes met----" "What an awful novelist's expression!" I expostulated. "I can't help it; there's no other word. Our eyes did meet, and we both fell simultaneously in love." "Speak for yourself." "I could see it in her eyes. Well, to go on. We looked at one another several times during that first interval, and then the second act began. In the course of the act, entirely accidentally, I knocked my programme on to the floor, and reaching down to get it I touched her hand. Well, there was obviously nothing else to do but to take hold of it." "And what did she do?" "Nothing. We sat like that the whole of the rest of the act, rapturously happy and----" "And quietly perspiring palm to palm. I know exactly, so we can pass over that. Proceed." "Of course you don't know in the least; you've never held a goddess's hand. When the lights went up again I reluctantly dropped her hand, not liking the thought of the profane crowd seeing us, and for want of anything better to say, I asked her if she actually was a goddess. She said it was a curious question, as she'd been wondering what god I was. So we said, how incredible: and I said I was sure she was a goddess, and she