her. She was touched, gratefully accepted the offer, and Mr. Hutton, who was particularly proud of his accent, suggested a little light reading in French. "French? I am so fond of French." Mrs. Hutton spoke of the language of Racine as though it were a dish of green peas. Mr. Hutton ran down to the library and returned with a yellow volume. He began reading. The effort of pronouncing perfectly absorbed his whole attention. But how good his accent was! The fact of its goodness seemed to improve the quality of the novel he was reading. At the end of fifteen pages an unmistakable sound aroused him. He looked up; Mrs. Hutton had gone to sleep. He sat still for a little while, looking with a dispassionate curiosity at the sleeping face. Once it had been beautiful; once, long ago, the sight of it, the recollection of it, had moved him with an emotion profounder, perhaps, than any he had felt before or since. Now it was lined and cadaverous. The skin was stretched tightly over the cheekbones, across the bridge of the sharp, bird-like nose. The closed eyes were set in profound bone-rimmed sockets. The lamplight striking on the face from the side emphasised with light and shade its cavities and projections. It was the face of a dead Christ by Morales. _Le squelette était invisible_ _Au temps heureux de l'art païen._ He shivered a little, and tiptoed out of the room. On the following day Mrs. Hutton came down to luncheon. She had had some unpleasant palpitations during the night, but she was feeling better now. Besides, she wanted to do honour to her guest. Miss Spence listened to her complaints about Llandrindod Wells, and was loud in sympathy, lavish with advice. Whatever she said was always said with intensity. She leaned forward, aimed, so to speak, like a gun, and fired her words. Bang! the charge in her soul was ignited, the words whizzed forth at the narrow barrel of her mouth. She was a machine-gun riddling her hostess with sympathy. Mr. Hutton had undergone similar bombardments, mostly of a literary or philosophic character--bombardments of Maeterlinck, of Mrs. Besant, of Bergson, of William James. To-day the missiles were medical. She talked about insomnia, she expatiated on the virtues of harmless drugs and beneficent specialists. Under the bombardment Mrs. Hutton opened out, like a flower in the sun. Mr. Hutton looked on in silence. The spectacle of Janet Spence evoked in him an unfailing curiosity. He was not romantic enough to imagine that every face masked an interior physiognomy of beauty or strangeness, that every woman's small talk was like a vapour hanging over mysterious gulfs. His wife, for example, and Doris; they were nothing more than what they seemed to be. But with Janet Spence it was somehow different. Here one could be sure that there was some kind of a queer face behind the Gioconda smile and the Roman eyebrows. The only question was: What exactly was there? Mr. Hutton could never quite make out. "But perhaps you won't have to go to Llandrindod after all," Miss Spence was saying. "If you get well quickly Dr. Libbard will let you off." "I only hope so. Indeed, I do really feel rather better to-day." Mr. Hutton felt ashamed. How much was it his own lack of sympathy that prevented her from feeling well every day? But he comforted himself by reflecting that it was only a case of feeling, not of being better. Sympathy does not mend a diseased liver or a weak heart. "My dear, I wouldn't eat those red currants if I were you," he said, suddenly solicitous. "You know that Libbard has banned everything with skins and pips." "But I am so fond of them," Mrs. Hutton protested, "and I feel so well to-day." "Don't be a tyrant," said Miss Spence, looking first at him and then at his wife. "Let the poor invalid have what she fancies; it will do her good." She laid her hand on Mrs. Hutton's arm and patted it affectionately two or three times. "Thank you, my dear." Mrs. Hutton helped herself to the stewed currants. "Well, don't blame me if they make you ill again." "Do I ever blame you, dear?" "You have nothing to blame me for," Mr. Hutton answered playfully. "I am the perfect husband." They sat in the garden after luncheon. From the island of shade under the old cypress tree they looked out across a flat expanse of lawn, in which the parterres of flowers shone with a metallic brilliance. Mr. Hutton took a deep breath of the warm and fragrant air. "It's good to be alive," he said. "Just to be alive," his wife echoed, stretching one pale, knot-jointed hand into the sunlight. A maid brought the coffee; the silver pots and the little blue cups were set on a folding table near the group of chairs. "Oh, my medicine!" exclaimed Mrs. Hutton. "Run in and fetch it, Clara, will you? The white bottle on the sideboard." "I'll go," said Mr. Hutton. "I've got to go and fetch a cigar in any case." He ran in towards the house. On the threshold he turned round for an instant. The maid was walking back across the lawn. His wife was sitting up in her deck-chair, engaged in opening her white parasol. Miss Spence was bending over the table, pouring out the coffee. He passed into the cool obscurity of the house. "Do you like sugar in your coffee?" Miss Spence inquired. "Yes, please. Give me rather a lot. I'll drink it after my medicine to take the taste away." Mrs. Hutton leaned back in her chair, lowering the sunshade over her eyes, so as to shut out from her vision the burning sky. Behind her, Miss Spence was making a delicate clinking among the coffee-cups. "I've given you three large spoonfuls. That ought to take the taste away. And here comes the medicine." Mr. Hutton had reappeared, carrying a wineglass, half full of a pale liquid. "It smells delicious," he said, as he handed it to his wife. "That's only the flavouring." She drank it off at a gulp, shuddered, and made a grimace. "Ugh, it's so nasty. Give me my coffee." Miss Spence gave her the cup; she sipped at it. "You've made it like syrup. But it's very nice, after that atrocious medicine." At half-past three Mrs. Hutton complained that she did not feel as well as she had done, and went indoors to lie down. Her husband would have said something about the red currants, but checked himself; the triumph of an "I told you so" was too cheaply won. Instead, he was sympathetic, and gave her his arm to the house. "A rest will do you good," he said. "By the way, I shan't be back till after dinner." "But why? Where are you going?" "I promised to go to Johnson's this evening. We have to discuss the war memorial, you know." "Oh, I wish you weren't going." Mrs. Hutton was almost in tears. "Can't you stay? I don't like being alone in the house." "But, my dear, I promised weeks ago." It was a bother having to lie like this. "And now I must get back and look after Miss Spence." He kissed her on the forehead and went out again into the garden. Miss Spence received him aimed and intense. "Your wife is dreadfully ill," she fired off at him. "I thought she cheered up so much when you came." "That was purely nervous, purely nervous. I was watching her closely. With a heart in that condition and her digestion wrecked--yes, wrecked--anything might happen." "Libbard doesn't take so gloomy a view of poor Emily's health." Mr. Hutton held open the gate that led from the garden into the drive; Miss Spence's car was standing by the front door. "Libbard is only a country doctor. You ought to see a specialist." He could not refrain from laughing. "You have a macabre passion for specialists." Miss Spence held up her hand in protest. "I am serious. I think poor Emily is in a very bad state. Anything might happen at any moment." He handed her into the car and shut the door. The chauffeur started the engine and climbed into his place, ready to drive off. "Shall I tell him to start?" He had no desire to continue the conversation. Miss Spence leaned forward and shot a Gioconda in his direction. "Remember, I expect you to come and see me again soon." Mechanically he grinned, made a polite noise, and, as the car moved forward, waved his hand. He was happy to be alone. A few minutes afterwards Mr. Hutton himself drove away. Doris was waiting at the cross-roads. They dined together twenty miles from home, at a roadside hotel. It was one of those bad, expensive meals which are only cooked in country hotels frequented by motorists. It revolted