moon.... (PAUL _and_ AMY _regard their exit in silence_.) PAUL. He doesn't look as though he much wanted to go and see the moon. AMY. Perhaps he guesses what's in store for him. PAUL (_surprised_). What, you don't mean to say you realised all the time? AMY. Realised what? PAUL. About la belle Lucrezia. AMY. I don't know what you mean. All I know is that she means to give Mr. Dolphin a good talking to. He's so mercenary. It made me quite indignant when she told me about him. Such a schemer, too. You know in America we have very definite ideas about honour. PAUL. Here too, Miss Toomis. AMY. Not Mr. Dolphin. Oh dear, it made me so sad; more sad than angry. I can never be grateful enough to Signorina Grattarol. PAUL. But I'm still at a loss to know exactly what you're talking about. AMY. And I am quite bewildered myself. Would you have believed it of him? I thought him such a nice man. PAUL. What has he done? AMY. It's all for my money, Miss Grattarol told me. She knows. He was just asking me to marry him, and I believe I would have said Yes. But she came in just in the nick of time. It seems he only wanted to marry me because I'm so rich. He doesn't care for me at all. Miss Grattarol knows what he's like. It's awful, isn't it? Oh dear, I wouldn't have thought it of him. PAUL. But you must forgive him, Miss Toomis. Money is a great temptation. Perhaps if you gave him another chance.... AMY. Impossible. PAUL. Poor Dolphin! He's such a nice young fellow. AMY. I thought so too. But he's false. PAUL. Don't be too hard on him. Money probably means too much to him. It's the fault of his upbringing. No one who has not lived among the traditions of our ancient aristocracy can be expected to have that contempt, almost that hatred of wealth, which is the sign of true nobility. If he had been brought up, as I was, in an old machicolated castle on the Loire, surrounded by ancestral ghosts, imbued with the spirit of the Crusaders and preux chevaliers who had inhabited the place in the past, if he had learnt to know what noblesse oblige really means, believe me, Miss Toomis, he could never have done such a thing. AMY. I should just think he couldn't, Monsieur de Barbazange. PAUL. You have no idea, Miss Toomis, how difficult it is for a man of truly noble feelings to get over the fact of your great wealth. When I heard that you were the possessor of a hundred million dollars.... AMY. Oh, I'm afraid it's more than that. It's two hundred million. PAUL. ... of two hundred million dollars, then ... it only makes it worse; I was very melancholy, Miss Toomis. For those two hundred million dollars were a barrier, which a descendant of Crusaders and preux chevaliers could not overleap. Honour, Miss Toomis, honour forbade. Ah, if only that accursed money had not stood in the way.... When I first saw you oh, how I was moved by that vision of beauty and innocence--I wanted nothing better than to stand gazing on you for ever. But then I heard about those millions. Dolphin was lucky to have felt no restraints. But enough, enough. (_He checks a rising tide of emotion_.) Give poor Dolphin another chance, Miss Toomis. At bottom he is a good fellow, and he may learn in time to esteem you for your own sake and to forget the dazzling millions. AMY. Never. I can only marry a man who is entirely disinterested. PAUL. But, can't you see, no disinterested man could ever bring himself to ask you? How could he prove his disinterestedness? No one would believe the purity of his intentions. AMY (_much moved_). It is for me to judge. I know a disinterested man when I see him. Even in America we can understand honour. PAUL (_with a sob in his voice_). Good-bye Miss Toomis. AMY. But no, I don't want it to be good-bye. PAUL. It must be. Never shall it be said of a Barbazange that he hunted a woman for her money. AMY. But what does it matter what the world says, if I say the opposite? PAUL. You say the opposite? Thank you, thank you. But no, good-bye. AMY. Stop. Oh! you're forcing me to do a most unwomanly thing. You're making me ask you to marry me. You're the only disinterested man I've ever met or, to judge from what I've seen of the world, I'm ever likely to meet. Haven't you kept away from me in spite of your feelings? Haven't you even tried to make me listen to another man--a man not worthy to black your boots? Oh, it's so wonderful, so noble! It's like something in a picture play. Paul, I offer myself to you. Will you take me in spite of my millions? PAUL (_falling on his knees and kissing the hem of_ AMY'S _skirt_). My angel, you're right; what does it matter what the world says as long as you believe in me? Amy, amie, bien-aimée.... Ah, it's too good too, too good to be true! (_He rises to his feet and embraces her with an unfeigned enthusiasm_.) AMY. Paul, Paul.... And so this is love. Isn't it wonderful? PAUL (_looking round anxiously_). You mustn't tell anyone about our engagement, my Amy. They might say unpleasant things in the hotel, you know. AMY. Of course I won't talk about it. We'll keep our happiness to ourselves, won't we? PAUL. Entirely to ourselves; and to-morrow we'll go to Paris and arrange about being married. AMY. Yes, yes; we'll take the eight o'clock train. PAUL. Not the eight o clock, my darling. I have to go to the bank to-morrow to do a little business. We must wait till the twelve thirty. AMY. Very well, then. The twelve-thirty. Oh, how happy I am! PAUL. So am I, my sweetheart. More than I can tell you. (_The sound of a window being opened is heard. They look up and see the_ BARONESS _dressed in a peignoir of the tenderest blue, emerging on to the right hand of the three balconies_.) AMY. Oh, my soul! I think I'd better go in. Good-night, my Paul. (_She runs in_.) SIMONE. Has that horrid little American girl gone? (_She peers down, then, reassured, she blows a kiss to_ PAUL.) My Romeo! PAUL. I come, Juliet. SIMONE. There's a kiss for you. PAUL (_throwing kisses with both hands_). And there's one for you. And another, and another. Two hundred million kisses, my angel. SIMONE (_giggling_). What a lot! PAUL. It is; you re quite right. Two hundred million.... I come, my Juliet. (_He darts into the hotel, pausing when just inside the door and out of sight of the_ BARONESS, _to mop himself once again with his enormous handkerchief. The operation over, he advances with a resolute step, The_ BARONESS _stands for a moment on the balcony. Then, seeing_ DOLPHIN _and_ LUCREZIA _coming in from the left, she retires, closing the window and drawing the curtains behind her_. DOLPHIN _comes striding in_; LUCREZIA _follows a little behind, looking anxiously up at him_.) LUCREZIA. Please, please.... DOLPHIN. NO, I won t listen to anything more. (_He walks with an agitated step up and down the stage_. LUCREZIA _stands with one hand resting on the back of a chair and the other pressed on her heart.)_ Do you mean to say you deliberately went and told her that I was only after her money? Oh, it's too bad, too bad. It's infamous. And I hadn't the faintest notion that she had any money. Besides, I don't want money; I have quite enough of my own. It's infamous, infamous! LUCREZIA. I know it was a horrible thing to do. But I couldn't help it. How could I stand by and see you being carried off by that silly little creature? DOLPHIN. But I cared for her. LUCREZIA. But not as I cared for you. I've got red blood in my veins; she's got nothing but milk and water. You couldn't have been happy with her. I can give you love of a kind she could never dream of. What does she know of passion? DOLPHIN. Nothing, I am thankful to say. I don't want passion; can't you understand that? I don't possess it myself and don't like it in others. I am a man of sentimental affections, with a touch of quiet sensuality. I don't want passion, I tell you. It's too violent; it frightens me. I couldn't possibly live with you. You'd utterly shatter my peace of mind in a day. Oh, how I wish you'd go away. LUCREZIA. But Sidney, Sidney, can't you understand what it is to be madly in love with somebody? You can't be so cruel.