high renaissance, out of an arch of the Middle Ages, into the dateless and eternal fields. From Montepulciano they descended on to Lake Trasimene. “Wasn’t there a battle here, or something?” asked Irene, when she saw the name on the map. Lord Hovenden seemed to remember that there had indeed been something of the kind in this neighbourhood. “But it doesn’t make much difference, does it?” Irene nodded; it certainly didn’t seem to make much difference. “Nofing makes any difference,” said Lord Hovenden, making himself heard with difficulty in the teeth of a wind which his speedometer registered as blowing at forty-five miles an hour. “Except”—the wind made him bold—“except you.” And he added hastily, in case Irene might try to be severe. “Such a bore going down-hill on a twiddly road like vis. One can’t risk ve slightest speed.” But when they turned into the flat highway along the western shore of the lake, his face brightened. “Vis is more like it,” he said. The wind in their faces increased from a capful to half a gale, from half a gale to a full gale, from a full gale very nearly to a hurricane. Lord Hovenden’s spirits rose with the mounting speed. His lips curved themselves into a smile of fixed and permanent rapture. Behind the glass of his goggles his eyes were very bright. “Pretty good going,” he said. “Pretty good,” echoed Irene. Under her mask, she too was smiling. Between her ears and the flaps of her leather cap the wind made a glorious roaring. She was happy. The road swung round to the left following the southern shore of the lake. “We shall soon be at Perugia,” said Hovenden regretfully. “What a bore!” And Irene, though she said nothing, inwardly agreed with him. They rushed on, the gale blew steadily in their faces. The road forked; Lord Hovenden turned the nose of his machine along the leftward branch. They lost sight of the blue water. “Good-bye, Trasimene,” said Irene regretfully. It was a lovely lake; she wished she could remember what had happened there. The road began to climb and twist; the wind abated to a mere half gale. From the top of the hill, Irene was surprised to see the blue waters, which she had just taken leave of for ever, sparkling two or three hundred feet below on the left. At the joyous sight Miss Elver clapped her hands and shouted. “Hullo,” Irene said, surprised. “That’s odd, isn’t it?” “Taken ve wrong road,” Hovenden explained. “We’re going norf again up ve east side of ve lake. We’ll go right round. It’s too much bore to stop and turn.” They rushed on. For a long time neither of them spoke. Behind them Miss Elver hooted her greetings to every living creature on the road. They were filled with happiness and joy; they would have liked to go on like this for ever. They rushed on. On the north shore of the lake the road straightened itself out and became flat again. The wind freshened. Far off on their respective hills Cortona and Montepulciano moved slowly, as they rushed along, like fixed stars. And now they were on the west shore once more. Perched on its jutting peninsula Castiglione del Lago reflected itself complacently in the water. “Pretty good,” shouted Lord Hovenden in the teeth of the hurricane. “By the way,” he added, “wasn’t it Hannibal or somebody who had a battle here? Wiv elephants, or somefing.” “Perhaps it was,” said Irene. “Not vat it matters in ve least.” “Not in the least.” She laughed under her mask. Hovenden laughed too. He was happy, he was joyful, he was daring. “Would you marry me if I asked you?” he said. The question followed naturally and by a kind of logic from what they had been saying about Hannibal and his elephants. He did not look at her as he asked the question; when one is doing sixty-seven one must keep one’s eyes on the road. “Don’t talk nonsense,” said Irene. “I’m not talking nonsense,” Lord Hovenden protested. “I’m asking a straightforward question. Would you marry me?” “No.” “Why not?” “I don’t know,” said Irene. They had passed Castiglione. The fixed stars of Montepulciano and Cortona had set behind them. “Don’t you like me?” shouted Lord Hovenden. The wind had swelled into a hurricane. “You know I do.” “Ven why not?” “Because, because ... oh, I don’t know. I wish you’d stop talking about it.” The machine rushed on. Once more they were running along the southern shore. A hundred yards before the forking of the roads, Lord Hovenden broke silence. “Will you marry me?” he asked. “No,” said Irene. Lord Hovenden turned the nose of his machine to the left. The road climbed and twisted, the wind of their speed abated. “Stop,” said Irene. “You’ve taken the wrong turn again.” But Hovenden did not stop. Instead, he pressed down the accelerator. If the car got round the corners it was more by a miracle than in obedience to the laws of Newton or of nature. “Stop!” cried Irene again. But the car went on. From the hill-top they looked down once more upon the lake. “Will you marry me?” Lord Hovenden asked again. His eyes were fixed on the road in front of him. Rapturously, triumphantly he smiled. He had never felt happier, never more daring, more overflowing with strength and power. “Will you marry me?” “No,” said Irene. She felt annoyed; how stupidly he was behaving! They were silent for several minutes. At Castiglione del Lago he asked again. Irene repeated her answer. “You’re not going to do this clown’s trick again, are you?” she asked as they approached the bifurcation of the roads. “It depends if you’re going to marry me,” he answered. This time he laughed aloud; so infectiously that Irene, whose irritation was something laid on superficially over her happiness, could not help laughing too. “_Are_ you going to?” he asked. “No.” Lord Hovenden turned to the left. “It’ll be late before we get to Perugia,” he said. “Oo-ooh!” cried Miss Elver, as they topped the long hill. “How lovely!” She clapped her hands. Then, leaning forward, she touched Irene’s shoulder. “What a lot of lakes there are here!” she said. On the north shore Lord Hovenden asked again. Cortona and Montelpuciano presided at the asking. “I don’t see why I should be bullied,” said Irene. Lord Hovenden found the answer more promising than those which had gone before. “But you’re not being bullied.” “I am,” she insisted. “You’re trying to force me to answer all at once, without thinking.” “Now really,” said Hovenden, “I call vat a bit fick. Forcing you to answer all at once! But vat’s exactly what I’m not doing. I’m giving you time. We’ll go round ve lake all night, if you like.” A quarter of a mile from the forking of the road, he put the question yet once more. “You’re a beast,” said Irene. “Vat’s not an answer.” “I don’t want to answer.” “You needn’t answer definitely if you don’t want to,” he conceded. “I only want you to say vat you’ll fink of it. Just say perhaps.” “I don’t want to,” Irene insisted. They were very close, now, to the dividing of ways. “Just perhaps. Just say you’ll fink of it.” “Well, I’ll think,” said Irene. “But mind, it doesn’t commit....” She did not finish her sentence; for the car, which had been heading towards the left, swerved suddenly to the right with such violence that Irene had to clutch at the arm of her seat to prevent herself from being thrown sideways bodily out of the machine. “Goodness!” “It’s all right,” said Lord Hovenden. They were running smoothly now along the right-hand road. Ten minutes later, from the crest of a little pass, they saw Perugia on its mountain, glittering in the sunlight. They found, when they reached the hotel, that the rest of the party had long since arrived. “We took ve wrong turning,” Lord Hovenden explained. “By ve way,” he added, turning to Mr. Cardan, “about vat lake we passed—wasn’t it Hannibal or some one....” “Such a lot of lakes,” Miss Elver was telling Mrs. Chelifer. “Such a lot!” “Only one, surely, my dear,” Mrs. Chelifer mildly insisted. But Miss Elver wouldn’t hear of it. “Lots and lots.” Mrs. Chelifer sighed compassionately. Before dinner Irene and Lord Hovenden went for a stroll in the town. The huge stone palaces lowered down at them as they passed. The sun was so low that only their highest windows, their roofs and cornices took the light. The world’s grey shadow was creeping up their flanks; but their crests were tipped with coral and ruddy gold. “I like vis place,” said Lord Hovenden. In the circumstances he would have liked Wigan or Pittsburg. “So do I,” said Irene. Through the window in her thick hair her face looked smiling out, merry in its childishness. Leaving