“Perhaps you’ll find that you can explore simultaneously both the temptation and the interior universe.” Calamy shook his head. “Alas, I’m afraid that’s not practicable. It would be delightful if it were. But for some reason it isn’t. Even in moderation it won’t do. I know that, more or less, by experience. And the authorities are all agreed about it.” “But after all,” said Chelifer, “there have been religions that prescribed indulgence in these particular temptations as a discipline and ceremony at certain seasons and to celebrate certain feasts.” “But they didn’t pretend,” Calamy answered, “that it was a discipline that made it easy for those who underwent it to explore the inward universe of mind.” “Perhaps they did,” objected Chelifer. “After all, there’s no golden rule. At one time and in one place you honour your father and your mother when they grow old; elsewhere and at other periods you knock them on the head and put them into the _pot-au-feu_. Everything has been right at one time or another and everything has been wrong.” “That’s only true with reservations,” said Calamy, “and the reservations are the most important part. There’s a parallel, it seems to me, between the moral and the physical world. In the physical world you call the unknowable reality the Four-Dimensional Continuum. The Continuum is the same for all observers; but when they want to draw a picture of it for themselves, they select different axes for their graphs, according to their different motions—and according to their different minds and physical limitations. Human beings have selected three-dimensional space and time as their axes. Their minds, their bodies and the earth on which they live being what they are, human beings could not have done otherwise. Space and time are necessary and inevitable ideas for us. And when we want to draw a picture of that other reality in which we live—is it different, or is it somehow, incomprehensibly, the same?—we choose, unescapably—we cannot fail to choose, those axes of reference which we call good and evil; the laws of our being make it necessary for us to see things under the aspects of good and evil. The reality remains the same; but the axes vary with the mental position, so to speak, and the varying capacities of different observers. Some observers are clearer-sighted and in some way more advantageously placed than others. The incessantly changing social conventions and moral codes of history represent the shifting axes of reference chosen by the least curious, most myopic and worst-placed observers. But the axes chosen by the best observers have always been startlingly like one another. Gotama, Jesus and Lao-tse, for example; they lived sufficiently far from one another in space, time and social position. But their pictures of reality resemble one another very closely. The nearer a man approaches these in penetration, the more nearly will his axes of moral reference correspond with theirs. And when all the most acute observers agree in saying that indulgence in these particular amusements interferes with the exploration of the spiritual world, then one can be pretty sure it’s true. In itself, no doubt, the natural and moderate satisfaction of the sexual instincts is a matter quite indifferent to morality. It is only in relation to something else that the satisfaction of a natural instinct can be said to be good or bad. It might be bad, for example, if it involved deceit or cruelty. It is certainly bad when it enslaves a mind that feels, within itself, that it ought to be free—free to contemplate and recollect itself.” “No doubt,” said Mr. Cardan. “But as a practical man, I can only say that it’s going to be most horribly difficult to preserve that freedom. That balancing of haunches....” He waved his cigar from side to side. “I shall call again in six months and see how you feel about it all then. It’s extraordinary what an effect the natural appetites do have on good resolutions. Satiated, one thinks regeneration will be so easy; but when one’s hungry again, how hard it seems.” They were silent. From the depths of the valley the smoky shadows had climbed higher and higher up the slope. The opposite hills were now profoundly black and the clouds in which their peaks were involved had become dark and menacing save where, on their upper surfaces, the sun touched them with, as it declined, an ever richer light. The shadow had climbed up to within a hundred feet of where they were sitting, soon it would envelop them. With a great jangling of bells and a clicking of small hard hoofs the six tall piebald goats came trotting down the steep path from the road. The little boy ran behind them, waving his stick. “Eia-oo!” he shouted with a kind of Homeric fury; but at the sight of the three men sitting on the bench outside the house he suddenly became silent, blushed and slunk unheroically away, hardly daring to whisper to the goats while he drove them into their stable for the night. “Dear me,” said Chelifer, who had followed the movements of the animals with a certain curiosity, “I believe those are the first goats I have seen, or smelt, in the flesh since I took to writing about them in my paper. Most interesting. One tends to forget that the creatures really exist.” “One tends to forget that anything or any one really exists, outside oneself,” said Mr. Cardan. “It’s always a bit of a shock to find that they do.” “Three days hence,” said Chelifer meditatively, “I shall be at my office again. Rabbits, goats, mice; Fetter Lane; the family _pension_. All the familiar horrors of reality.” “Sentimentalist!” mocked Calamy. “Meanwhile,” said Mr. Cardan, “Lilian has suddenly decided to move on to Monte Carlo. I go with her, of course; one can’t reject free meals when they’re offered.” He threw away his cigar, got up and stretched himself. “Well, we must be getting down before it gets dark.” “I shan’t see you again for some time, then?” said Calamy. “I shall be here again at the end of six months, never fear,” said Mr. Cardan. “Even if I have to come at my own expense.” They climbed up the steep little path on to the road. “Good-bye.” “Good-bye.” Calamy watched them go, watched them till they were out of sight round a bend in the road. A profound melancholy settled down upon him. With them, he felt, had gone all his old, familiar life. He was left quite alone with something new and strange. What was to come of this parting? Or perhaps, he reflected, nothing would come of it. Perhaps he had been a fool. The cottage was in the shadow now. Looking up the slope he could see a clump of trees still glittering as though prepared for a festival above the rising flood of darkness. And at the head of the valley, like an immense precious stone, glowing with its own inward fire, the limestone crags reached up through the clouds into the pale sky. Perhaps he had been a fool, thought Calamy. But looking at that shining peak, he was somehow reassured. THE END ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Transcriber’s Notes This file uses _underscores_ to indicate italic text. Some inconsistencies in spelling, hyphenation, and punctuation have been retained. Itemized changes from the original text: • p. 9: changed “Princess” to “Princes” (Princes of Massa and Carrara, Dukes of Vezza) • p. 45: removed comma between “that” and “against” (reaction, like that against the) • p. 78: changed “that” to “than” (that’s easier said than done) • p. 85: changed “Mrs” to “Mrs.” (Mrs. Aldwinkle smiled) • p. 106: changed “called” to “calling” (a being calling himself Homo Sapiens) • p. 110: changed “God’s” to “Gog’s” (Gog’s Court) • p. 110: changed “Himalayas” to “Himalayans” (Since Himalayans were made to breed true to colour) • p. 177: changed “flattered” to “flattened” (flattened domes of foliage) • p. 181: changed “you” to “your” (I’ve always ... admired your work) • p. 182: changed “intelligensia” to “intelligentsia” (the cosmos, the intelligentsia, love....) • p. 220: changed “Its” to “It’s” (It’s ‘amusing’—isn’t that the word?) • p. 227: changed period to question mark (Should we go on?) • p. 253: changed “Carden” to “Cardan” (Next morning Mr. Cardan was down early) • p. 309: changed “povery” to “poverty” (the abysses of unrelieved poverty) • p. 321: changed “Keat” to “Keate” (some new Busby or Keate) • p. 326: changed “Maremann” to “Maremman” (the Maremman road) Hyphenation was changed in some words for consistency: • p. 47: Changed “anal erotism” to “anal-erotism” to match five other occurrences • p. 85: Changed “straight-forward” to “straightforward” to match four other occurrences • p. 93: Changed “life-time” to “lifetime” to match three other occurrences • p. 300: Changed “hill-side” to “hillside” to match two other occurrences • p. 346: Changed “tip-toed” to “tiptoed” to match two other occurrences Inconsistent hyphenation