apt to have a composing and even ennobling influence, since plain speaking is possible and subterfuges of no avail. Rodney, too, was much in need of a confidant; Katharine, despite her promises of help, had failed him at the critical moment; she had gone off with Denham; she was, perhaps, tormenting Denham as she had tormented him. How grave and stable he seemed, speaking little, and walking firmly, compared with what Rodney knew of his own torments and indecisions! He began to cast about for some way of telling the story of his relations with Katharine and Cassandra that would not lower him in Denham’s eyes. It then occurred to him that, perhaps, Katharine herself had confided in Denham; they had something in common; it was likely that they had discussed him that very afternoon. The desire to discover what they had said of him now came uppermost in his mind. He recalled Katharine’s laugh; he remembered that she had gone, laughing, to walk with Denham. “Did you stay long after we’d left?” he asked abruptly. “No. We went back to my house.” This seemed to confirm Rodney’s belief that he had been discussed. He turned over the unpalatable idea for a while, in silence. “Women are incomprehensible creatures, Denham!” he then exclaimed. “Um,” said Denham, who seemed to himself possessed of complete understanding, not merely of women, but of the entire universe. He could read Rodney, too, like a book. He knew that he was unhappy, and he pitied him, and wished to help him. “You say something and they—fly into a passion. Or for no reason at all, they laugh. I take it that no amount of education will—” The remainder of the sentence was lost in the high wind, against which they had to struggle; but Denham understood that he referred to Katharine’s laughter, and that the memory of it was still hurting him. In comparison with Rodney, Denham felt himself very secure; he saw Rodney as one of the lost birds dashed senseless against the glass; one of the flying bodies of which the air was full. But he and Katharine were alone together, aloft, splendid, and luminous with a twofold radiance. He pitied the unstable creature beside him; he felt a desire to protect him, exposed without the knowledge which made his own way so direct. They were united as the adventurous are united, though one reaches the goal and the other perishes by the way. “You couldn’t laugh at some one you cared for.” This sentence, apparently addressed to no other human being, reached Denham’s ears. The wind seemed to muffle it and fly away with it directly. Had Rodney spoken those words? “You love her.” Was that his own voice, which seemed to sound in the air several yards in front of him? “I’ve suffered tortures, Denham, tortures!” “Yes, yes, I know that.” “She’s laughed at me.” “Never—to me.” The wind blew a space between the words—blew them so far away that they seemed unspoken. “How I’ve loved her!” This was certainly spoken by the man at Denham’s side. The voice had all the marks of Rodney’s character, and recalled, with strange vividness, his personal appearance. Denham could see him against the blank buildings and towers of the horizon. He saw him dignified, exalted, and tragic, as he might have appeared thinking of Katharine alone in his rooms at night. “I am in love with Katharine myself. That is why I am here to-night.” Ralph spoke distinctly and deliberately, as if Rodney’s confession had made this statement necessary. Rodney exclaimed something inarticulate. “Ah, I’ve always known it,” he cried, “I’ve known it from the first. You’ll marry her!” The cry had a note of despair in it. Again the wind intercepted their words. They said no more. At length they drew up beneath a lamp-post, simultaneously. “My God, Denham, what fools we both are!” Rodney exclaimed. They looked at each other, queerly, in the light of the lamp. Fools! They seemed to confess to each other the extreme depths of their folly. For the moment, under the lamp-post, they seemed to be aware of some common knowledge which did away with the possibility of rivalry, and made them feel more sympathy for each other than for any one else in the world. Giving simultaneously a little nod, as if in confirmation of this understanding, they parted without speaking again. CHAPTER XXIX Between twelve and one that Sunday night Katharine lay in bed, not asleep, but in that twilight region where a detached and humorous view of our own lot is possible; or if we must be serious, our seriousness is tempered by the swift oncome of slumber and oblivion. She saw the forms of Ralph, William, Cassandra, and herself, as if they were all equally unsubstantial, and, in putting off reality, had gained a kind of dignity which rested upon each impartially. Thus rid of any uncomfortable warmth of partisanship or load of obligation, she was dropping off to sleep when a light tap sounded upon her door. A moment later Cassandra stood beside her, holding a candle and speaking in the low tones proper to the time of night. “Are you awake, Katharine?” “Yes, I’m awake. What is it?” She roused herself, sat up, and asked what in Heaven’s name Cassandra was doing? “I couldn’t sleep, and I thought I’d come and speak to you—only for a moment, though. I’m going home to-morrow.” “Home? Why, what has happened?” “Something happened to-day which makes it impossible for me to stay here.” Cassandra spoke formally, almost solemnly; the announcement was clearly prepared and marked a crisis of the utmost gravity. She continued what seemed to be part of a set speech. “I have decided to tell you the whole truth, Katharine. William allowed himself to behave in a way which made me extremely uncomfortable to-day.” Katharine seemed to waken completely, and at once to be in control of herself. “At the Zoo?” she asked. “No, on the way home. When we had tea.” As if foreseeing that the interview might be long, and the night chilly, Katharine advised Cassandra to wrap herself in a quilt. Cassandra did so with unbroken solemnity. “There’s a train at eleven,” she said. “I shall tell Aunt Maggie that I have to go suddenly.... I shall make Violet’s visit an excuse. But, after thinking it over, I don’t see how I can go without telling you the truth.” She was careful to abstain from looking in Katharine’s direction. There was a slight pause. “But I don’t see the least reason why you should go,” said Katharine eventually. Her voice sounded so astonishingly equable that Cassandra glanced at her. It was impossible to suppose that she was either indignant or surprised; she seemed, on the contrary, sitting up in bed, with her arms clasped round her knees and a little frown on her brow, to be thinking closely upon a matter of indifference to her. “Because I can’t allow any man to behave to me in that way,” Cassandra replied, and she added, “particularly when I know that he is engaged to some one else.” “But you like him, don’t you?” Katharine inquired. “That’s got nothing to do with it,” Cassandra exclaimed indignantly. “I consider his conduct, under the circumstances, most disgraceful.” This was the last of the sentences of her premeditated speech; and having spoken it she was left unprovided with any more to say in that particular style. When Katharine remarked: “I should say it had everything to do with it,” Cassandra’s self-possession deserted her. “I don’t understand you in the least, Katharine. How can you behave as you behave? Ever since I came here I’ve been amazed by you!” “You’ve enjoyed yourself, haven’t you?” Katharine asked. “Yes, I have,” Cassandra admitted. “Anyhow, my behavior hasn’t spoiled your visit.” “No,” Cassandra allowed once more. She was completely at a loss. In her forecast of the interview she had taken it for granted that Katharine, after an outburst of incredulity, would agree that Cassandra must return home as soon as possible. But Katharine, on the contrary, accepted her statement at once, seemed neither shocked nor surprised, and merely looked rather more thoughtful than usual. From being a mature woman charged with an important mission, Cassandra shrunk to the stature of an inexperienced child. “Do you think I’ve been very foolish about it?” she asked. Katharine made no answer, but still sat deliberating silently, and a certain feeling of alarm took possession of Cassandra. Perhaps her words had struck far deeper than she had thought, into depths beyond her reach, as so much of Katharine was beyond her reach. She thought suddenly that she had been playing with very dangerous tools. Looking at her at length, Katharine asked slowly, as if she found the question very difficult to ask. “But do you care for William?” She marked the agitation and bewilderment of the girl’s expression, and how she looked away