question was ominous; up till now Mrs. Honeychurch had behaved with charity and restraint. “No, I don’t think so, mother; Cecil’s all right.” “Perhaps he’s tired.” Lucy compromised: perhaps Cecil was a little tired. “Because otherwise”—she pulled out her bonnet-pins with gathering displeasure—“because otherwise I cannot account for him.” “I do think Mrs. Butterworth is rather tiresome, if you mean that.” “Cecil has told you to think so. You were devoted to her as a little girl, and nothing will describe her goodness to you through the typhoid fever. No—it is just the same thing everywhere.” “Let me just put your bonnet away, may I?” “Surely he could answer her civilly for one half-hour?” “Cecil has a very high standard for people,” faltered Lucy, seeing trouble ahead. “It’s part of his ideals—it is really that that makes him sometimes seem—” “Oh, rubbish! If high ideals make a young man rude, the sooner he gets rid of them the better,” said Mrs. Honeychurch, handing her the bonnet. “Now, mother! I’ve seen you cross with Mrs. Butterworth yourself!” “Not in that way. At times I could wring her neck. But not in that way. No. It is the same with Cecil all over.” “By-the-by—I never told you. I had a letter from Charlotte while I was away in London.” This attempt to divert the conversation was too puerile, and Mrs. Honeychurch resented it. “Since Cecil came back from London, nothing appears to please him. Whenever I speak he winces;—I see him, Lucy; it is useless to contradict me. No doubt I am neither artistic nor literary nor intellectual nor musical, but I cannot help the drawing-room furniture; your father bought it and we must put up with it, will Cecil kindly remember.” “I—I see what you mean, and certainly Cecil oughtn’t to. But he does not mean to be uncivil—he once explained—it is the _things_ that upset him—he is easily upset by ugly things—he is not uncivil to _people_.” “Is it a thing or a person when Freddy sings?” “You can’t expect a really musical person to enjoy comic songs as we do.” “Then why didn’t he leave the room? Why sit wriggling and sneering and spoiling everyone’s pleasure?” “We mustn’t be unjust to people,” faltered Lucy. Something had enfeebled her, and the case for Cecil, which she had mastered so perfectly in London, would not come forth in an effective form. The two civilizations had clashed—Cecil hinted that they might—and she was dazzled and bewildered, as though the radiance that lies behind all civilization had blinded her eyes. Good taste and bad taste were only catchwords, garments of diverse cut; and music itself dissolved to a whisper through pine-trees, where the song is not distinguishable from the comic song. She remained in much embarrassment, while Mrs. Honeychurch changed her frock for dinner; and every now and then she said a word, and made things no better. There was no concealing the fact, Cecil had meant to be supercilious, and he had succeeded. And Lucy—she knew not why—wished that the trouble could have come at any other time. “Go and dress, dear; you’ll be late.” “All right, mother—” “Don’t say ‘All right’ and stop. Go.” She obeyed, but loitered disconsolately at the landing window. It faced north, so there was little view, and no view of the sky. Now, as in the winter, the pine-trees hung close to her eyes. One connected the landing window with depression. No definite problem menaced her, but she sighed to herself, “Oh, dear, what shall I do, what shall I do?” It seemed to her that everyone else was behaving very badly. And she ought not to have mentioned Miss Bartlett’s letter. She must be more careful; her mother was rather inquisitive, and might have asked what it was about. Oh, dear, what should she do?—and then Freddy came bounding upstairs, and joined the ranks of the ill-behaved. “I say, those are topping people.” “My dear baby, how tiresome you’ve been! You have no business to take them bathing in the Sacred Lake; it’s much too public. It was all right for you but most awkward for everyone else. Do be more careful. You forget the place is growing half suburban.” “I say, is anything on to-morrow week?” “Not that I know of.” “Then I want to ask the Emersons up to Sunday tennis.” “Oh, I wouldn’t do that, Freddy, I wouldn’t do that with all this muddle.” “What’s wrong with the court? They won’t mind a bump or two, and I’ve ordered new balls.” “I meant _it’s_ better not. I really mean it.” He seized her by the elbows and humorously danced her up and down the passage. She pretended not to mind, but she could have screamed with temper. Cecil glanced at them as he proceeded to his toilet and they impeded Mary with her brood of hot-water cans. Then Mrs. Honeychurch opened her door and said: “Lucy, what a noise you’re making! I have something to say to you. Did you say you had had a letter from Charlotte?” and Freddy ran away. “Yes. I really can’t stop. I must dress too.” “How’s Charlotte?” “All right.” “Lucy!” The unfortunate girl returned. “You’ve a bad habit of hurrying away in the middle of one’s sentences. Did Charlotte mention her boiler?” “Her _what?_” “Don’t you remember that her boiler was to be had out in October, and her bath cistern cleaned out, and all kinds of terrible to-doings?” “I can’t remember all Charlotte’s worries,” said Lucy bitterly. “I shall have enough of my own, now that you are not pleased with Cecil.” Mrs. Honeychurch might have flamed out. She did not. She said: “Come here, old lady—thank you for putting away my bonnet—kiss me.” And, though nothing is perfect, Lucy felt for the moment that her mother and Windy Corner and the Weald in the declining sun were perfect. So the grittiness went out of life. It generally did at Windy Corner. At the last minute, when the social machine was clogged hopelessly, one member or other of the family poured in a drop of oil. Cecil despised their methods—perhaps rightly. At all events, they were not his own. Dinner was at half-past seven. Freddy gabbled the grace, and they drew up their heavy chairs and fell to. Fortunately, the men were hungry. Nothing untoward occurred until the pudding. Then Freddy said: “Lucy, what’s Emerson like?” “I saw him in Florence,” said Lucy, hoping that this would pass for a reply. “Is he the clever sort, or is he a decent chap?” “Ask Cecil; it is Cecil who brought him here.” “He is the clever sort, like myself,” said Cecil. Freddy looked at him doubtfully. “How well did you know them at the Bertolini?” asked Mrs. Honeychurch. “Oh, very slightly. I mean, Charlotte knew them even less than I did.” “Oh, that reminds me—you never told me what Charlotte said in her letter.” “One thing and another,” said Lucy, wondering whether she would get through the meal without a lie. “Among other things, that an awful friend of hers had been bicycling through Summer Street, wondered if she’d come up and see us, and mercifully didn’t.” “Lucy, I do call the way you talk unkind.” “She was a novelist,” said Lucy craftily. The remark was a happy one, for nothing roused Mrs. Honeychurch so much as literature in the hands of females. She would abandon every topic to inveigh against those women who (instead of minding their houses and their children) seek notoriety by print. Her attitude was: “If books must be written, let them be written by men”; and she developed it at great length, while Cecil yawned and Freddy played at “This year, next year, now, never,” with his plum-stones, and Lucy artfully fed the flames of her mother’s wrath. But soon the conflagration died down, and the ghosts began to gather in the darkness. There were too many ghosts about. The original ghost—that touch of lips on her cheek—had surely been laid long ago; it could be nothing to her that a man had kissed her on a mountain once. But it had begotten a spectral family—Mr. Harris, Miss Bartlett’s letter, Mr. Beebe’s memories of violets—and one or other of these was bound to haunt her before Cecil’s very eyes. It was Miss Bartlett who returned now, and with appalling vividness. “I have been thinking, Lucy, of that letter of Charlotte’s. How is she?” “I tore the thing up.” “Didn’t she say how she was? How does she sound? Cheerful?” “Oh, yes I suppose so—no—not very cheerful, I suppose.” “Then, depend upon it, it _is_ the boiler. I know myself how water preys upon one’s mind. I would rather anything else—even a misfortune with the meat.” Cecil laid his hand over his eyes. “So would I,” asserted Freddy, backing his mother up—backing up the spirit of her remark rather than the substance. “And I have been thinking,” she added rather nervously, “surely