whole of life for his sake. They trusted me.” A carriage drew up at the front-door. “Give George my love—once only. Tell him ‘muddle.’” Then she arranged her veil, while the tears poured over her cheeks inside. “Lucy—” “No—they are in the hall—oh, please not, Mr. Emerson—they trust me—” “But why should they, when you have deceived them?” Mr. Beebe opened the door, saying: “Here’s my mother.” “You’re not worthy of their trust.” “What’s that?” said Mr. Beebe sharply. “I was saying, why should you trust her when she deceived you?” “One minute, mother.” He came in and shut the door. “I don’t follow you, Mr. Emerson. To whom do you refer? Trust whom?” “I mean she has pretended to you that she did not love George. They have loved one another all along.” Mr. Beebe looked at the sobbing girl. He was very quiet, and his white face, with its ruddy whiskers, seemed suddenly inhuman. A long black column, he stood and awaited her reply. “I shall never marry him,” quavered Lucy. A look of contempt came over him, and he said, “Why not?” “Mr. Beebe—I have misled you—I have misled myself—” “Oh, rubbish, Miss Honeychurch!” “It is not rubbish!” said the old man hotly. “It’s the part of people that you don’t understand.” Mr. Beebe laid his hand on the old man’s shoulder pleasantly. “Lucy! Lucy!” called voices from the carriage. “Mr. Beebe, could you help me?” He looked amazed at the request, and said in a low, stern voice: “I am more grieved than I can possibly express. It is lamentable, lamentable—incredible.” “What’s wrong with the boy?” fired up the other again. “Nothing, Mr. Emerson, except that he no longer interests me. Marry George, Miss Honeychurch. He will do admirably.” He walked out and left them. They heard him guiding his mother up-stairs. “Lucy!” the voices called. She turned to Mr. Emerson in despair. But his face revived her. It was the face of a saint who understood. “Now it is all dark. Now Beauty and Passion seem never to have existed. I know. But remember the mountains over Florence and the view. Ah, dear, if I were George, and gave you one kiss, it would make you brave. You have to go cold into a battle that needs warmth, out into the muddle that you have made yourself; and your mother and all your friends will despise you, oh, my darling, and rightly, if it is ever right to despise. George still dark, all the tussle and the misery without a word from him. Am I justified?” Into his own eyes tears came. “Yes, for we fight for more than Love or Pleasure; there is Truth. Truth counts, Truth does count.” “You kiss me,” said the girl. “You kiss me. I will try.” He gave her a sense of deities reconciled, a feeling that, in gaining the man she loved, she would gain something for the whole world. Throughout the squalor of her homeward drive—she spoke at once—his salutation remained. He had robbed the body of its taint, the world’s taunts of their sting; he had shown her the holiness of direct desire. She “never exactly understood,” she would say in after years, “how he managed to strengthen her. It was as if he had made her see the whole of everything at once.” Chapter XX The End of the Middle Ages The Miss Alans did go to Greece, but they went by themselves. They alone of this little company will double Malea and plough the waters of the Saronic gulf. They alone will visit Athens and Delphi, and either shrine of intellectual song—that upon the Acropolis, encircled by blue seas; that under Parnassus, where the eagles build and the bronze charioteer drives undismayed towards infinity. Trembling, anxious, cumbered with much digestive bread, they did proceed to Constantinople, they did go round the world. The rest of us must be contented with a fair, but a less arduous, goal. Italiam petimus: we return to the Pension Bertolini. George said it was his old room. “No, it isn’t,” said Lucy; “because it is the room I had, and I had your father’s room. I forget why; Charlotte made me, for some reason.” He knelt on the tiled floor, and laid his face in her lap. “George, you baby, get up.” “Why shouldn’t I be a baby?” murmured George. Unable to answer this question, she put down his sock, which she was trying to mend, and gazed out through the window. It was evening and again the spring. “Oh, bother Charlotte,” she said thoughtfully. “What can such people be made of?” “Same stuff as parsons are made of.” “Nonsense!” “Quite right. It is nonsense.” “Now you get up off the cold floor, or you’ll be starting rheumatism next, and you stop laughing and being so silly.” “Why shouldn’t I laugh?” he asked, pinning her with his elbows, and advancing his face to hers. “What’s there to cry at? Kiss me here.” He indicated the spot where a kiss would be welcome. He was a boy after all. When it came to the point, it was she who remembered the past, she into whose soul the iron had entered, she who knew whose room this had been last year. It endeared him to her strangely that he should be sometimes wrong. “Any letters?” he asked. “Just a line from Freddy.” “Now kiss me here; then here.” Then, threatened again with rheumatism, he strolled to the window, opened it (as the English will), and leant out. There was the parapet, there the river, there to the left the beginnings of the hills. The cab-driver, who at once saluted him with the hiss of a serpent, might be that very Phaethon who had set this happiness in motion twelve months ago. A passion of gratitude—all feelings grow to passions in the South—came over the husband, and he blessed the people and the things who had taken so much trouble about a young fool. He had helped himself, it is true, but how stupidly! All the fighting that mattered had been done by others—by Italy, by his father, by his wife. “Lucy, you come and look at the cypresses; and the church, whatever its name is, still shows.” “San Miniato. I’ll just finish your sock.” “Signorino, domani faremo uno giro,” called the cabman, with engaging certainty. George told him that he was mistaken; they had no money to throw away on driving. And the people who had not meant to help—the Miss Lavishes, the Cecils, the Miss Bartletts! Ever prone to magnify Fate, George counted up the forces that had swept him into this contentment. “Anything good in Freddy’s letter?” “Not yet.” His own content was absolute, but hers held bitterness: the Honeychurches had not forgiven them; they were disgusted at her past hypocrisy; she had alienated Windy Corner, perhaps for ever. “What does he say?” “Silly boy! He thinks he’s being dignified. He knew we should go off in the spring—he has known it for six months—that if mother wouldn’t give her consent we should take the thing into our own hands. They had fair warning, and now he calls it an elopement. Ridiculous boy—” “Signorino, domani faremo uno giro—” “But it will all come right in the end. He has to build us both up from the beginning again. I wish, though, that Cecil had not turned so cynical about women. He has, for the second time, quite altered. Why will men have theories about women? I haven’t any about men. I wish, too, that Mr. Beebe—” “You may well wish that.” “He will never forgive us—I mean, he will never be interested in us again. I wish that he did not influence them so much at Windy Corner. I wish he hadn’t—But if we act the truth, the people who really love us are sure to come back to us in the long run.” “Perhaps.” Then he said more gently: “Well, I acted the truth—the only thing I did do—and you came back to me. So possibly you know.” He turned back into the room. “Nonsense with that sock.” He carried her to the window, so that she, too, saw all the view. They sank upon their knees, invisible from the road, they hoped, and began to whisper one another’s names. Ah! it was worth while; it was the great joy that they had expected, and countless little joys of which they had never dreamt. They were silent. “Signorino, domani faremo—” “Oh, bother that man!” But Lucy remembered the vendor of photographs and said, “No, don’t be rude to him.” Then with a catching of her breath, she murmured: “Mr. Eager and Charlotte, dreadful frozen Charlotte. How cruel she would be to a man like that!” “Look at the lights going over the bridge.” “But this room reminds me of Charlotte. How horrible to grow old in Charlotte’s way! To think that evening at the rectory that she shouldn’t