the slime, and be handed with admiration round the assembly of the gods. “Men did produce this” they will say, and, saying, they will give men immortality. But meanwhile--what agitations meanwhile! The foundations of Property and Propriety are laid bare, twin rocks; Family Pride flounders to the surface, puffing and blowing and refusing to be comforted; Theology, vaguely ascetic, gets up a nasty ground swell. Then the lawyers are aroused--cold brood--and creep out of their holes. They do what they can; they tidy up Property and Propriety, reassure Theology and Family Pride. Half-guineas are poured on the troubled waters, the lawyers creep back, and, if all has gone well, Love joins one man and woman together in Matrimony. Margaret had expected the disturbance, and was not irritated by it. For a sensitive woman she had steady nerves, and could bear with the incongruous and the grotesque; and, besides, there was nothing excessive about her love-affair. Good-humour was the dominant note of her relations with Mr. Wilcox, or, as I must now call him, Henry. Henry did not encourage romance, and she was no girl to fidget for it. An acquaintance had become a lover, might become a husband, but would retain all that she had noted in the acquaintance; and love must confirm an old relation rather than reveal a new one. In this spirit she promised to marry him. He was in Swanage on the morrow bearing the engagement ring. They greeted one another with a hearty cordiality that impressed Aunt Juley. Henry dined at The Bays, but had engaged a bedroom in the principal hotel; he was one of those men who know the principal hotel by instinct. After dinner he asked Margaret if she wouldn’t care for a turn on the Parade. She accepted, and could not repress a little tremor; it would be her first real love scene. But as she put on her hat she burst out laughing. Love was so unlike the article served up in books; the joy, though genuine was different; the mystery an unexpected mystery. For one thing, Mr. Wilcox still seemed a stranger. For a time they talked about the ring; then she said: “Do you remember the Embankment at Chelsea? It can’t be ten days ago.” “Yes,” he said, laughing. “And you and your sister were head and ears deep in some Quixotic scheme. Ah well!” “I little thought then, certainly. Did you?” “I don’t know about that; I shouldn’t like to say.” “Why, was it earlier?” she cried. “Did you think of me this way earlier! How extraordinarily interesting, Henry! Tell me.” But Henry had no intention of telling. Perhaps he could not have told, for his mental states became obscure as soon as he had passed through them. He misliked the very word “interesting,” connoting it with wasted energy and even with morbidity. Hard facts were enough for him. “I didn’t think of it,” she pursued. “No; when you spoke to me in the drawing-room, that was practically the first. It was all so different from what it’s supposed to be. On the stage, or in books, a proposal is--how shall I put it?--a full-blown affair, a kind of bouquet; it loses its literal meaning. But in life a proposal really is a proposal--” “By the way--” “--a suggestion, a seed,” she concluded; and the thought flew away into darkness. “I was thinking, if you didn’t mind, that we ought to spend this evening in a business talk; there will be so much to settle.” “I think so too. Tell me, in the first place, how did you get on with Tibby?” “With your brother?” “Yes, during cigarettes.” “Oh, very well.” “I am so glad,” she answered, a little surprised. “What did you talk about? Me, presumably.” “About Greece too.” “Greece was a very good card, Henry. Tibby’s only a boy still, and one has to pick and choose subjects a little. Well done.” “I was telling him I have shares in a currant-farm near Calamata.” “What a delightful thing to have shares in! Can’t we go there for our honeymoon?” “What to do?” “To eat the currants. And isn’t there marvellous scenery?” “Moderately, but it’s not the kind of place one could possibly go to with a lady.” “Why not?” “No hotels.” “Some ladies do without hotels. Are you aware that Helen and I have walked alone over the Apennines, with our luggage on our backs?” “I wasn’t aware, and, if I can manage it, you will never do such a thing again.” She said more gravely: “You haven’t found time for a talk with Helen yet, I suppose?” “No.” “Do, before you go. I am so anxious you two should be friends.” “Your sister and I have always hit it off,” he said negligently. “But we’re drifting away from our business. Let me begin at the beginning. You know that Evie is going to marry Percy Cahill.” “Dolly’s uncle.” “Exactly. The girl’s madly in love with him. A very good sort of fellow, but he demands--and rightly--a suitable provision with her. And in the second place you will naturally understand, there is Charles. Before leaving town, I wrote Charles a very careful letter. You see, he has an increasing family and increasing expenses, and the I. and W. A. is nothing particular just now, though capable of development.” “Poor fellow!” murmured Margaret, looking out to sea, and not understanding. “Charles being the elder son, some day Charles will have Howards End; but I am anxious, in my own happiness, not to be unjust to others.” “Of course not,” she began, and then gave a little cry. “you mean money. How stupid I am! Of course not!” Oddly enough, he winced a little at the word. “Yes, Money, since you put it so frankly. I am determined to be just to all--just to you, just to them. I am determined that my children shall have me.” “Be generous to them,” she said sharply. “Bother justice!” “I am determined--and have already written to Charles to that effect--” “But how much have you got?” “What?” “How much have you a year? I’ve six hundred.” “My income?” “Yes. We must begin with how much you have, before we can settle how much you can give Charles. Justice, and even generosity, depend on that.” “I must say you’re a downright young woman,” he observed, patting her arm and laughing a little. “What a question to spring on a fellow!” “Don’t you know your income? Or don’t you want to tell it me?” “I--” “That’s all right”--now she patted him--“don’t tell me. I don’t want to know. I can do the sum just as well by proportion. Divide your income into ten parts. How many parts would you give to Evie, how many to Charles, how many to Paul?” “The fact is, my dear, I hadn’t any intention of bothering you with details. I only wanted to let you know that--well, that something must be done for the others, and you’ve understood me perfectly, so let’s pass on to the next point.” “Yes, we’ve settled that,” said Margaret, undisturbed by his strategic blunderings. “Go ahead; give away all you can, bearing in mind that I’ve a clear six hundred. What a mercy it is to have all this money about one.” “We’ve none too much, I assure you; you’re marrying a poor man.” “Helen wouldn’t agree with me here,” she continued. “Helen daren’t slang the rich, being rich herself, but she would like to. There’s an odd notion, that I haven’t yet got hold of, running about at the back of her brain, that poverty is somehow ‘real.’ She dislikes all organisation, and probably confuses wealth with the technique of wealth. Sovereigns in a stocking wouldn’t bother her; cheques do. Helen is too relentless. One can’t deal in her high-handed manner with the world.” “There’s this other point, and then I must go back to my hotel and write some letters. What’s to be done now about the house in Ducie Street?” “Keep it on--at least, it depends. When do you want to marry me?” She raised her voice, as too often, and some youths, who were also taking the evening air, overheard her. “Getting a bit hot, eh?” said one. Mr. Wilcox turned on them, and said sharply, “I say!” There was silence. “Take care I don’t report you to the police.” They moved away quietly enough, but were only biding their time, and the rest of the conversation was punctuated by peals of ungovernable laughter. Lowering his voice and infusing a hint of reproof into it, he said: “Evie will probably be married in September. We could scarcely think of anything before then.” “The earlier the nicer, Henry. Females are not supposed to say such things, but the earlier the nicer.” “How about September for us too?” he asked, rather dryly. “Right. Shall we go into Ducie Street ourselves in September? Or shall we try to bounce Helen and