doors into imagination, and Helen was drawn up short by “The more a lady has to say, the better,” administered waggishly. “Oh yes,” she said. “Ladies brighten--” “Yes, I know. The darlings are regular sunbeams. Let me give you a plate.” “How do you like your work?” interposed Margaret. He, too, was drawn up short. He would not have these women prying into his work. They were Romance, and so was the room to which he had at last penetrated, with the queer sketches of people bathing upon its walls, and so were the very tea-cups, with their delicate borders of wild strawberries. But he would not let romance interfere with his life. There is the devil to pay then. “Oh, well enough,” he answered. “Your company is the Porphyrion, isn’t it?” “Yes, that’s so.”--becoming rather offended. “It’s funny how things get round.” “Why funny?” asked Helen, who did not follow the workings of his mind. “It was written as large as life on your card, and considering we wrote to you there, and that you replied on the stamped paper--” “Would you call the Porphyrion one of the big Insurance Companies?” pursued Margaret. “It depends on what you call big.” “I mean by big, a solid, well-established concern, that offers a reasonably good career to its employes.” “I couldn’t say--some would tell you one thing and others another,” said the employee uneasily. “For my own part”--he shook his head--“I only believe half I hear. Not that even; it’s safer. Those clever ones come to the worse grief, I’ve often noticed. Ah, you can’t be too careful.” He drank, and wiped his moustache, which was going to be one of those moustaches that always droop into tea-cups--more bother than they’re worth, surely, and not fashionable either. “I quite agree, and that’s why I was curious to know; is it a solid, well-established concern?” Leonard had no idea. He understood his own corner of the machine, but nothing beyond it. He desired to confess neither knowledge nor ignorance, and under these circumstances, another motion of the head seemed safest. To him, as to the British public, the Porphyrion was the Porphyrion of the advertisement--a giant, in the classical style, but draped sufficiently, who held in one hand a burning torch, and pointed with the other to St. Paul’s and Windsor Castle. A large sum of money was inscribed below, and you drew your own conclusions. This giant caused Leonard to do arithmetic and write letters, to explain the regulations to new clients, and re-explain them to old ones. A giant was of an impulsive morality--one knew that much. He would pay for Mrs. Munt’s hearthrug with ostentatious haste, a large claim he would repudiate quietly, and fight court by court. But his true fighting weight, his antecedents, his amours with other members of the commercial Pantheon--all these were as uncertain to ordinary mortals as were the escapades of Zeus. While the gods are powerful, we learn little about them. It is only in the days of their decadence that a strong light beats into heaven. “We were told the Porphyrion’s no go,” blurted Helen. “We wanted to tell you; that’s why we wrote.” “A friend of ours did think that it is insufficiently reinsured,” said Margaret. Now Leonard had his clue. He must praise the Porphyrion. “You can tell your friend,” he said, “that he’s quite wrong.” “Oh, good!” The young man coloured a little. In his circle to be wrong was fatal. The Miss Schlegels did not mind being wrong. They were genuinely glad that they had been misinformed. To them nothing was fatal but evil. “Wrong, so to speak,” he added. “How ‘so to speak’?” “I mean I wouldn’t say he’s right altogether.” But this was a blunder. “Then he is right partly,” said the elder woman, quick as lightning. Leonard replied that every one was right partly, if it came to that. “Mr. Bast, I don’t understand business, and I dare say my questions are stupid, but can you tell me what makes a concern ‘right’ or ‘wrong’?” Leonard sat back with a sigh. “Our friend, who is also a business man, was so positive. He said before Christmas--” “And advised you to clear out of it,” concluded Helen. “But I don’t see why he should know better than you do.” Leonard rubbed his hands. He was tempted to say that he knew nothing about the thing at all. But a commercial training was too strong for him. Nor could he say it was a bad thing, for this would be giving it away; nor yet that it was good, for this would be giving it away equally. He attempted to suggest that it was something between the two, with vast possibilities in either direction, but broke down under the gaze of four sincere eyes. And yet he scarcely distinguished between the two sisters. One was more beautiful and more lively, but “the Miss Schlegels” still remained a composite Indian god, whose waving arms and contradictory speeches were the product of a single mind. “One can but see,” he remarked, adding, “as Ibsen says, ‘things happen.’” He was itching to talk about books and make the most of his romantic hour. Minute after minute slipped away, while the ladies, with imperfect skill, discussed the subject of reinsurance or praised their anonymous friend. Leonard grew annoyed--perhaps rightly. He made vague remarks about not being one of those who minded their affairs being talked over by others, but they did not take the hint. Men might have shown more tact. Women, however tactful elsewhere, are heavy-handed here. They cannot see why we should shroud our incomes and our prospects in a veil. “How much exactly have you, and how much do you expect to have next June?” And these were women with a theory, who held that reticence about money matters is absurd, and that life would be truer if each would state the exact size of the golden island upon which he stands, the exact stretch of warp over which he throws the woof that is not money. How can we do justice to the pattern otherwise? And the precious minutes slipped away, and Jacky and squalor came nearer. At last he could bear it no longer, and broke in, reciting the names of books feverishly. There was a moment of piercing joy when Margaret said, “So YOU like Carlyle” and then the door opened, and “Mr. Wilcox, Miss Wilcox” entered, preceded by two prancing puppies. “Oh, the dears! Oh, Evie, how too impossibly sweet!” screamed Helen, falling on her hands and knees. “We brought the little fellows round,” said Mr. Wilcox. “I bred ’em myself.” “Oh, really! Mr. Bast, come and play with puppies.” “I’ve got to be going now,” said Leonard sourly. “But play with puppies a little first.” “This is Ahab, that’s Jezebel,” said Evie, who was one of those who name animals after the less successful characters of Old Testament history. “I’ve got to be going.” Helen was too much occupied with puppies to notice him. “Mr. Wilcox, Mr. Ba--Must you be really? Good-bye!” “Come again,” said Helen from the floor. Then Leonard’s gorge arose. Why should he come again? What was the good of it? He said roundly: “No, I shan’t; I knew it would be a failure.” Most people would have let him go. “A little mistake. We tried knowing another class--impossible.” But the Schlegels had never played with life. They had attempted friendship, and they would take the consequences. Helen retorted, “I call that a very rude remark. What do you want to turn on me like that for?” and suddenly the drawing-room re-echoed to a vulgar row. “You ask me why I turn on you?” “Yes.” “What do you want to have me here for?’ “To help you, you silly boy!” cried Helen. “And don’t shout.” “I don’t want your patronage. I don’t want your tea. I was quite happy. What do you want to unsettle me for?” He turned to Mr. Wilcox. “I put it to this gentleman. I ask you, sir, am I to have my brain picked?” Mr. Wilcox turned to Margaret with the air of humorous strength that he could so well command. “Are we intruding, Miss Schlegel? Can we be of any use, or shall we go?” But Margaret ignored him. “I’m connected with a leading insurance company, sir. I receive what I take to be an invitation from these--ladies” (he drawled the word). “I come, and it’s to have my brain picked. I ask you, is it fair?” “Highly unfair,” said Mr. Wilcox, drawing a gasp from Evie, who knew that her father was becoming dangerous. “There, you hear that? Most unfair, the gentleman says. There! Not content with”--pointing at Margaret--“you can’t deny it.” His voice rose; he was falling into the rhythm of a scene with Jacky. “But as soon as I’m useful it’s a very different thing. ‘Oh yes, send for him. Cross-question