gleamed in the flank of a distant hill, cut for some Olympian audience. And here and there, whatever the surface crop, the earth broke into little embankments, little ditches, little mounds: there had been no lack of drama to solace the gods. In Cadover, the perilous house, Agnes had already parted from Mrs. Failing. His thoughts returned to her. Was she, the soul of truth, in safety? Was her purity vexed by the lies and selfishness? Would she elude the caprice which had, he vaguely knew, caused suffering before? Ah, the frailty of joy! Ah, the myriads of longings that pass without fruition, and the turf grows over them! Better men, women as noble—they had died up here and their dust had been mingled, but only their dust. These are morbid thoughts, but who dare contradict them? There is much good luck in the world, but it is luck. We are none of us safe. We are children, playing or quarreling on the line, and some of us have Rickie’s temperament, or his experiences, and admit it. So he mused, that anxious little speck, and all the land seemed to comment on his fears and on his love. Their path lay upward, over a great bald skull, half grass, half stubble. It seemed each moment there would be a splendid view. The view never came, for none of the inclines were sharp enough, and they moved over the skull for many minutes, scarcely shifting a landmark or altering the blue fringe of the distance. The spire of Salisbury did alter, but very slightly, rising and falling like the mercury in a thermometer. At the most it would be half hidden; at the least the tip would show behind the swelling barrier of earth. They passed two elder-trees—a great event. The bare patch, said Stephen, was owing to the gallows. Rickie nodded. He had lost all sense of incident. In this great solitude—more solitary than any Alpine range—he and Agnes were floating alone and for ever, between the shapeless earth and the shapeless clouds. An immense silence seemed to move towards them. A lark stopped singing, and they were glad of it. They were approaching the Throne of God. The silence touched them; the earth and all danger dissolved, but ere they quite vanished Rickie heard himself saying, “Is it exactly what we intended?” “Yes,” said a man’s voice; “it’s the old plan.” They were in another valley. Its sides were thick with trees. Down it ran another stream and another road: it, too, sheltered a string of villages. But all was richer, larger, and more beautiful—the valley of the Avon below Amesbury. “I’ve been asleep!” said Rickie, in awestruck tones. “Never!” said the other facetiously. “Pleasant dreams?” “Perhaps—I’m really tired of apologizing to you. How long have you been holding me on?” “All in the day’s work.” He gave him back the reins. “Where’s that round hill?” “Gone where the good niggers go. I want a drink.” This is Nature’s joke in Wiltshire—her one joke. You toil on windy slopes, and feel very primeval. You are miles from your fellows, and lo! a little valley full of elms and cottages. Before Rickie had waked up to it, they had stopped by a thatched public-house, and Stephen was yelling like a maniac for beer. There was no occasion to yell. He was not very thirsty, and they were quite ready to serve him. Nor need he have drunk in the saddle, with the air of a warrior who carries important dispatches and has not the time to dismount. A real soldier, bound on a similar errand, rode up to the inn, and Stephen feared that he would yell louder, and was hostile. But they made friends and treated each other, and slanged the proprietor and ragged the pretty girls; while Rickie, as each wave of vulgarity burst over him, sunk his head lower and lower, and wished that the earth would swallow him up. He was only used to Cambridge, and to a very small corner of that. He and his friends there believed in free speech. But they spoke freely about generalities. They were scientific and philosophic. They would have shrunk from the empirical freedom that results from a little beer. That was what annoyed him as he rode down the new valley with two chattering companions. He was more skilled than they were in the principles of human existence, but he was not so indecently familiar with the examples. A sordid village scandal—such as Stephen described as a huge joke—sprang from certain defects in human nature, with which he was theoretically acquainted. But the example! He blushed at it like a maiden lady, in spite of its having a parallel in a beautiful idyll of Theocritus. Was experience going to be such a splendid thing after all? Were the outside of houses so very beautiful? “That’s spicy!” the soldier was saying. “Got any more like that?” “I’se got a pome,” said Stephen, and drew a piece of paper from his pocket. The valley had broadened. Old Sarum rose before them, ugly and majestic. “Write this yourself?” he asked, chuckling. “Rather,” said Stephen, lowering his head and kissing Æneas between the ears. “But who’s old Em’ly?” Rickie winced and frowned. “Now you’re asking. “‘Old Em’ly she limps, And as——’” “I am so tired,” said Rickie. Why should he stand it any longer? He would go home to the woman he loved. “Do you mind if I give up Salisbury?” “But we’ve seen nothing!” cried Stephen. “I shouldn’t enjoy anything, I am so absurdly tired.” “Left turn, then—all in the day’s work.” He bit at his moustache angrily. “Good gracious me, man!—of course I’m going back alone. I’m not going to spoil your day. How could you think it of me?” Stephen gave a loud sigh of relief. “If you do want to go home, here’s your whip. Don’t fall off. Say to her you wanted it, or there might be ructions.” “Certainly. Thank you for your kind care of me.” “‘Old Em’ly she limps, And as——’” Soon he was out of earshot. Soon they were lost to view. Soon they were out of his thoughts. He forgot the coarseness and the drinking and the ingratitude. A few months ago he would not have forgotten so quickly, and he might also have detected something else. But a lover is dogmatic. To him the world shall be beautiful and pure. When it is not, he ignores it. “He’s not tired,” said Stephen to the soldier; “he wants his girl.” And they winked at each other, and cracked jokes over the eternal comedy of love. They asked each other if they’d let a girl spoil a morning’s ride. They both exhibited a profound cynicism. Stephen, who was quite without ballast, described the household at Cadover: he should say that Rickie would find Miss Pembroke kissing the footman. “I say the footman’s kissing old Em’ly.” “Jolly day,” said Stephen. His voice was suddenly constrained. He was not sure whether he liked the soldier after all, nor whether he had been wise in showing him his compositions. “‘Old Em’ly she limps, And as I——’” “All right, Thomas. That’ll do.” “‘Old Em’ly——’” “I wish you’d dry up, like a good fellow. This is the lady’s horse, you know, hang it, after all.” “In-deed!” “Don’t you see—when a fellow’s on a horse, he can’t let another fellow—kind of—don’t you know?” The man did know. “There’s sense in that.” he said approvingly. Peace was restored, and they would have reached Salisbury if they had not had some more beer. It unloosed the soldier’s fancies, and again he spoke of old Em’ly, and recited the poem, with Aristophanic variations. “Jolly day,” repeated Stephen, with a straightening of the eyebrows and a quick glance at the other’s body. He then warned him against the variations. In consequence he was accused of being a member of the Y.M.C.A. His blood boiled at this. He refuted the charge, and became great friends with the soldier, for the third time. “Any objection to ‘Sorcy Mr. and Mrs. Tackleton’?” “Rather not.” The soldier sang “Saucy Mr. and Mrs. Tackleton.” It is really a work for two voices, most of the sauciness disappearing when taken as a solo. Nor is Mrs. Tackleton’s name Em’ly. “I call it a jolly rotten song,” said Stephen crossly. “I won’t stand being got at.” “P’r’aps y’like therold song. Lishen. “‘Of all the gulls that arsshmart, There’s none line pretty—Em’ly; For she’s the darling of merart——’” “Now, that’s wrong.” He rode up close to the singer. “Shright.” “’Tisn’t.” “It’s as my mother taught me.” “I don’t care.” “I’ll not alter from mother’s way.” Stephen was baffled. Then he said, “How does your mother make it rhyme?” “Wot?” “Squat. You’re an ass, and I’m not. Poems want rhymes. ‘Alley’ comes next line.” He said “alley” was—welcome to come if it liked. “It can’t. You want Sally. Sally—alley. Em’ly—alley doesn’t do.” “Emily—femily!”